# The curl Test Suite

# Running

## Requires to run

  - perl (and a unix-style shell)
  - python (and a unix-style shell, for SMB and TELNET tests)
  - python-impacket (for SMB tests)
  - diff (when a test fails, a diff is shown)
  - stunnel (for HTTPS and FTPS tests)
  - OpenSSH or SunSSH (for SCP, SFTP and SOCKS4/5 tests)
  - nghttpx (for HTTP/2 tests)
  - nroff (for --manual tests)
  - An available `en_US.UTF-8` locale

### Installation of python-impacket

  The Python-based test servers support both recent Python 2 and 3.
  You can figure out your default Python interpreter with python -V

  Please install python-impacket in the correct Python environment.
  You can use pip or your OS' package manager to install 'impacket'.

  On Debian/Ubuntu the package names are:

  -  Python 2: 'python-impacket'
  -  Python 3: 'python3-impacket'

  On FreeBSD the package names are:

  -  Python 2: 'py27-impacket'
  -  Python 3: 'py37-impacket'

  On any system where pip is available:

  -  Python 2: 'pip2 install impacket'
  -  Python 3: 'pip3 install impacket'

  You may also need to manually install the Python package 'six'
  as that may be a missing requirement for impacket on Python 3.

### Port numbers used by test servers

  All test servers run on "random" port numbers. All tests should be written
  to use suitable variables instead of fixed port numbers so that test cases
  continue to work independent on what port numbers the test servers actually
  use.

  See [FILEFORMAT](FILEFORMAT.md) for the port number variables.

### Test servers

  The test suite runs simple FTP, POP3, IMAP, SMTP, HTTP and TFTP stand-alone
  servers on the ports listed above to which it makes requests. For SSL tests,
  it runs stunnel to handle encryption to the regular servers. For SSH, it
  runs a standard OpenSSH server. For SOCKS4/5 tests SSH is used to perform
  the SOCKS functionality and requires a SSH client and server.

  The base port number (8990), which all the individual port numbers are
  indexed from, can be set explicitly using runtests.pl' -b option to allow
  running more than one instance of the test suite simultaneously on one
  machine, or just move the servers in case you have local services on any of
  those ports.

  The HTTP server supports listening on a Unix domain socket, the default
  location is 'http.sock'.

### Run

  `./configure && make && make test`. This builds the test suite support code
  and invokes the 'runtests.pl' perl script to run all the tests. Edit the top
  variables of that script in case you have some specific needs, or run the
  script manually (after the support code has been built).

  The script breaks on the first test that doesn't do OK. Use `-a` to prevent
  the script from aborting on the first error. Run the script with `-v` for
  more verbose output. Use `-d` to run the test servers with debug output
  enabled as well. Specifying `-k` keeps all the log files generated by the
  test intact.

  Use `-s` for shorter output, or pass test numbers to run specific tests only
  (like `./runtests.pl 3 4` to test 3 and 4 only). It also supports test case
  ranges with 'to', as in `./runtests.pl 3 to 9` which runs the seven tests
  from 3 to 9. Any test numbers starting with ! are disabled, as are any test
  numbers found in the files `data/DISABLED` or `data/DISABLED.local` (one per
  line). The latter is meant for local temporary disables and will be ignored
  by git.

  When `-s` is not present, each successful test will display on one line the
  test number and description and on the next line a set of flags, the test
  result, current test sequence, total number of tests to be run and an
  estimated amount of time to complete the test run. The flags consist of
  these letters describing what is checked in this test:

    s stdout
    d data
    u upload
    p protocol
    o output
    e exit code
    m memory
    v valgrind

### Shell startup scripts

  Tests which use the ssh test server, SCP/SFTP/SOCKS tests, might be badly
  influenced by the output of system wide or user specific shell startup
  scripts, .bashrc, .profile, /etc/csh.cshrc, .login, /etc/bashrc, etc. which
  output text messages or escape sequences on user login.  When these shell
  startup messages or escape sequences are output they might corrupt the
  expected stream of data which flows to the sftp-server or from the ssh
  client which can result in bad test behavior or even prevent the test
  server from running.

  If the test suite ssh or sftp server fails to start up and logs the message
  'Received message too long' then you are certainly suffering the unwanted
  output of a shell startup script.  Locate, cleanup or adjust the shell
  script.

### Memory test

  The test script will check that all allocated memory is freed properly IF
  curl has been built with the `CURLDEBUG` define set. The script will
  automatically detect if that is the case, and it will use the
  'memanalyze.pl' script to analyze the memory debugging output.

  Also, if you run tests on a machine where valgrind is found, the script will
  use valgrind to run the test with (unless you use `-n`) to further verify
  correctness.

  runtests.pl's `-t` option will enable torture testing mode, which runs each
  test many times and makes each different memory allocation fail on each
  successive run.  This tests the out of memory error handling code to ensure
  that memory leaks do not occur even in those situations. It can help to
  compile curl with `CPPFLAGS=-DMEMDEBUG_LOG_SYNC` when using this option, to
  ensure that the memory log file is properly written even if curl crashes.

### Debug

  If a test case fails, you can conveniently get the script to invoke the
  debugger (gdb) for you with the server running and the exact same command
  line parameters that failed. Just invoke `runtests.pl <test number> -g` and
  then just type 'run' in the debugger to perform the command through the
  debugger.

### Logs

  All logs are generated in the log/ subdirectory (it is emptied first in the
  runtests.pl script). They remain in there after a test run.

### Test input files

  All test cases are put in the `data/` subdirectory. Each test is stored in
  the file named according to the test number.

  See [FILEFORMAT.md](FILEFORMAT.md) for a description of the test case file
  format.

### Code coverage

  gcc provides a tool that can determine the code coverage figures for the
  test suite.  To use it, configure curl with `CFLAGS='-fprofile-arcs
  -ftest-coverage -g -O0`.  Make sure you run the normal and torture tests to
  get more full coverage, i.e. do:

    make test
    make test-torture

  The graphical tool ggcov can be used to browse the source and create
  coverage reports on *NIX hosts:

    ggcov -r lib src

  The text mode tool gcov may also be used, but it doesn't handle object files
  in more than one directory very well.

### Remote testing

  The runtests.pl script provides some hooks to allow curl to be tested on a
  machine where perl can not be run.  The test framework in this case runs on
  a workstation where perl is available, while curl itself is run on a remote
  system using ssh or some other remote execution method.  See the comments at
  the beginning of runtests.pl for details.

## Test case numbering

  Test cases used to be numbered by category ranges, but the ranges filled
  up. Subsets of tests can now be selected by passing keywords to the
  runtests.pl script via the make `TFLAGS` variable.

  New tests are added by finding a free number in `tests/data/Makefile.inc`.

## Write tests

  Here's a quick description on writing test cases. We basically have three
  kinds of tests: the ones that test the curl tool, the ones that build small
  applications and test libcurl directly and the unit tests that test
  individual (possibly internal) functions.

### test data

  Each test has a master file that controls all the test data. What to read,
  what the protocol exchange should look like, what exit code to expect and
  what command line arguments to use etc.

  These files are `tests/data/test[num]` where `[num]` is just a unique
  identifier described above, and the XML-like file format of them is
  described in the separate [FILEFORMAT.md](FILEFORMAT.md) document.

### curl tests

  A test case that runs the curl tool and verifies that it gets the correct
  data, it sends the correct data, it uses the correct protocol primitives
  etc.

### libcurl tests

  The libcurl tests are identical to the curl ones, except that they use a
  specific and dedicated custom-built program to run instead of "curl". This
  tool is built from source code placed in `tests/libtest` and if you want to
  make a new libcurl test that is where you add your code.

### unit tests

  Unit tests are placed in `tests/unit`. There's a tests/unit/README
  describing the specific set of checks and macros that may be used when
  writing tests that verify behaviors of specific individual functions.

  The unit tests depend on curl being built with debug enabled.
