.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_global_init_mem 3 "10 May 2004" "libcurl 7.12.0" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_global_init_mem - Global libcurl initialization with memory callbacks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_global_init_mem(long flags,
                              curl_malloc_callback m,
                              curl_free_callback f,
                              curl_realloc_callback r,
                              curl_strdup_callback s,
                              curl_calloc_callback c);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function works exactly as \fIcurl_global_init(3)\fP with one addition: it
allows the application to set callbacks to replace the otherwise used internal
memory functions.

If you are using libcurl from multiple threads or libcurl was built with the
threaded resolver option then the callback functions must be thread safe. The
threaded resolver is a common build option to enable (and in some cases the
default) so we strongly urge you to make your callback functions thread safe.

All callback arguments must be set to valid function pointers. The
prototypes for the given callbacks must match these:
.IP "void *malloc_callback(size_t size);"
To replace malloc()
.IP "void free_callback(void *ptr);"
To replace free()
.IP "void *realloc_callback(void *ptr, size_t size);"
To replace realloc()
.IP "char *strdup_callback(const char *str);"
To replace strdup()
.IP "void *calloc_callback(size_t nmemb, size_t size);"
To replace calloc()
.PP
This function is otherwise the same as \fIcurl_global_init(3)\fP, please refer
to that man page for documentation.
.SH CAUTION
Manipulating these gives considerable powers to the application to severely
screw things up for libcurl. Take care!
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
 curl_global_init_mem(CURL_GLOBAL_DEFAULT, curl_malloc_cb,
                      curl_free_cb, curl_realloc_cb,
                      curl_strdup_cb, curl_calloc_cb);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.12.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
CURLE_OK (0) means everything was OK, non-zero means an error occurred as
\fI<curl/curl.h>\fP defines - see \fIlibcurl-errors(3)\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_global_init "(3), "
.BR curl_global_cleanup "(3), "
