.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_mime_subparts 3 "22 August 2017" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
curl_mime_subparts - set sub-parts of a multipart mime part
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_mime_subparts(curl_mimepart *part, curl_mime *subparts);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcurl_mime_subparts(3)\fP sets a multipart mime part's content from a mime
structure.

\fIpart\fP is a handle to the multipart part.

\fIsubparts\fP is a mime structure handle holding the sub-parts. After
\fIcurl_mime_subparts(3)\fP succeeds, the mime structure handle belongs to the
multipart part and must not be freed explicitly. It may however be updated by
subsequent calls to mime API functions.

Setting a part's contents multiple times is valid: only the value set by the
last call is retained. It is possible to unassign previous part's contents by
setting \fIsubparts\fP to NULL.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
 /* The inline part is an alternative proposing the html and the text
    versions of the email. */
 alt = curl_mime_init(curl);

 /* HTML message. */
 part = curl_mime_addpart(alt);
 curl_mime_data(part, inline_html, CURL_ZERO_TERMINATED);
 curl_mime_type(part, "text/html");

 /* Text message. */
 part = curl_mime_addpart(alt);
 curl_mime_data(part, inline_text, CURL_ZERO_TERMINATED);

 /* Create the inline part. */
 part = curl_mime_addpart(mime);
 curl_mime_subparts(part, alt);
 curl_mime_type(part, "multipart/alternative");
 slist = curl_slist_append(NULL, "Content-Disposition: inline");
 curl_mime_headers(part, slist, 1);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
As long as at least one of HTTP, SMTP or IMAP is enabled. Added in 7.56.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CURLE_OK or a CURL error code upon failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_mime_addpart (3),
.BR curl_mime_init (3)
