.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_escape 3 "6 March 2002" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
curl_escape - URL encodes the given string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

char *curl_escape(const char *string, int length);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Obsolete function. Use \fIcurl_easy_escape(3)\fP instead!

This function converts the given input \fBstring\fP to a URL encoded string
and return that as a new allocated string. All input characters that are not
a-z, A-Z or 0-9 are converted to their "URL escaped" version (\fB%NN\fP where
\fBNN\fP is a two-digit hexadecimal number).

If the \fBlength\fP argument is set to 0, \fIcurl_escape(3)\fP uses strlen()
on \fBstring\fP to find out the size.

You must \fIcurl_free(3)\fP the returned string when you are done with it.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  char *output = curl_escape("data to convert", 15);
  if(output) {
    printf("Encoded: %s\\n", output);
    curl_free(output);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Since 7.15.4, \fIcurl_easy_escape(3)\fP should be used. This function might be
removed in a future release.
.SH RETURN VALUE
A pointer to a null-terminated string or NULL if it failed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_unescape (3),
.BR curl_free (3)
