.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_multi_fdset 3 "2 Jan 2006" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
curl_multi_fdset - extracts file descriptor information from a multi handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLMcode curl_multi_fdset(CURLM *multi_handle,
                           fd_set *read_fd_set,
                           fd_set *write_fd_set,
                           fd_set *exc_fd_set,
                           int *max_fd);
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function extracts file descriptor information from a given multi_handle.
libcurl returns its \fIfd_set\fP sets. The application can use these to
select() on, but be sure to \fIFD_ZERO\fP them before calling this function as
\fIcurl_multi_fdset(3)\fP only adds its own descriptors, it does not zero or
otherwise remove any others. The \fIcurl_multi_perform(3)\fP function should
be called as soon as one of them is ready to be read from or written to.

If the \fIread_fd_set\fP argument is not a null pointer, it points to an
object of type \fBfd_set\fP that on returns specifies the file descriptors to
be checked for being ready to read.

If the \fIwrite_fd_set\fP argument is not a null pointer, it points to an
object of type \fBfd_set\fP that on return specifies the file descriptors to
be checked for being ready to write.

If the \fIexc_fd_set\fP argument is not a null pointer, it points to an object
of type \fBfd_set\fP that on return specifies the file descriptors to be
checked for error conditions pending.

If no file descriptors are set by libcurl, \fImax_fd\fP contain -1 when this
function returns. Otherwise it contains the highest descriptor number libcurl
set. When libcurl returns -1 in \fImax_fd\fP, it is because libcurl currently
does something that is not possible for your application to monitor with a
socket and unfortunately you can then not know exactly when the current action
is completed using select(). You then need to wait a while before you proceed
and call \fIcurl_multi_perform(3)\fP anyway. How long to wait? Unless
\fIcurl_multi_timeout(3)\fP gives you a lower number, we suggest 100
milliseconds or so, but you may want to test it out in your own particular
conditions to find a suitable value.

When doing select(), you should use \fIcurl_multi_timeout(3)\fP to figure out
how long to wait for action. Call \fIcurl_multi_perform(3)\fP even if no
activity has been seen on the \fBfd_sets\fP after the timeout expires as
otherwise internal retries and timeouts may not work as you would think and
want.

If one of the sockets used by libcurl happens to be larger than what can be
set in an \fBfd_set\fP, which on POSIX systems means that the file descriptor
is larger than \fBFD_SETSIZE\fP, then libcurl tries to not set it. Setting a
too large file descriptor in an \fBfd_set\fP implies an out of bounds write
which can cause crashes, or worse. The effect of NOT storing it might possibly
save you from the crash, but makes your program NOT wait for sockets it should
wait for...
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
 /* get file descriptors from the transfers */
 mc = curl_multi_fdset(multi_handle, &fdread, &fdwrite, &fdexcep, &maxfd);

 if(mc != CURLM_OK) {
   fprintf(stderr, "curl_multi_fdset() failed, code %d.\\n", mc);
   break;
 }

 /* wait for activity on one of the sockets */
 rc = select(maxfd + 1, &fdread, &fdwrite, &fdexcep, &timeout);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.9.6
.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBCURLMcode\fP type, general libcurl multi interface error code. See
\fIlibcurl-errors(3)\fP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_multi_cleanup (3),
.BR curl_multi_init (3),
.BR curl_multi_perform (3),
.BR curl_multi_timeout (3),
.BR curl_multi_wait (3),
.BR select (2)
