.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_global_sslget 3 "November 8 2017" "libcurl 7.57.1" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_global_sslget - Get the SSL backend selected to be used by libcurl
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <curl/curl.h>
.nf

typedef struct {
  curl_sslbackend id;
  const char *name;
} curl_ssl_backend;

typedef enum {
  CURLSSLBACKEND_NONE = 0,
  CURLSSLBACKEND_OPENSSL = 1,
  CURLSSLBACKEND_GNUTLS = 2,
  CURLSSLBACKEND_NSS = 3,
  CURLSSLBACKEND_GSKIT = 5,
  CURLSSLBACKEND_POLARSSL = 6,
  CURLSSLBACKEND_WOLFSSL = 7,
  CURLSSLBACKEND_SCHANNEL = 8,
  CURLSSLBACKEND_DARWINSSL = 9,
  CURLSSLBACKEND_AXTLS = 10,
  CURLSSLBACKEND_MBEDTLS = 11
} curl_sslbackend;

.B "const curl_ssl_backend *curl_global_sslget();"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function gets the SSL backend selected to be used by libcurl. This
function is not thread safe if it is called before \fIcurl_global_init(3)\fP.

If libcurl was built without SSL support then \fIid\fP is CURLSSLBACKEND_NONE.

If libcurl was built with support for multiple SSL backends but a backend has
not yet been selected by \fIcurl_global_sslset(3)\fP then \fIid\fP is
CURLSSLBACKEND_NONE.

If the curl_ssl_backend returned by this function has an \fIid\fP other than
CURLSSLBACKEND_NONE then it will not change. That is because libcurl selects
the SSL library to use only once.
.SH AVAILABILITY
This function was added in libcurl 7.57.1. Before this version, only
\fICURLINFO_TLS_SSL_PTR(3)\fP could be used to obtain the SSL backend id.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function will always return a valid pointer to curl_ssl_backend that
should not be freed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_global_init "(3), "
.BR curl_global_sslset "(3), "
.BR CURLINFO_TLS_SSL_PTR "(3), "
.BR libcurl "(3) "
