.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_version 3 "5 March 2001" "libcurl 7.0" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_version - returns the libcurl version string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

char *curl_version();
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Returns a human readable string with the version number of libcurl and some of
its important components (like OpenSSL version).

We recommend using \fIcurl_version_info(3)\fP instead!
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
printf("libcurl version %s\\n", curl_version());
.fi

.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
A pointer to a null-terminated string. The string resides in a statically
allocated buffer and must not be freed by the caller.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_version_info "(3)"
