.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_mime_init 3 "22 August 2017" "libcurl 7.56.0" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_mime_init - create a mime handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

curl_mime *curl_mime_init(CURL *easy_handle);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcurl_mime_init(3)\fP creates a handle to a new empty mime structure,
This mime structure can be subsequently filled using the mime API, then
attached to some easy handle using option \fICURLOPT_MIMEPOST(3)\fP within
a \fIcurl_easy_setopt(3)\fP call or added as a multipart in another mime
handle's part using \fIcurl_mime_subparts(3)\fP.

\fIeasy_handle\fP is used for part separator randomization and error
reporting. It does not need to be the final target handle.

Using a mime handle is the recommended way to post an HTTP form, format and
send a multi-part email with SMTP or upload such an email to an IMAP server.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
 CURL *easy = curl_easy_init();
 curl_mime *mime;
 curl_mimepart *part;

 /* Build an HTTP form with a single field named "data", */
 mime = curl_mime_init(easy);
 part = curl_mime_addpart(mime);
 curl_mime_data(part, "This is the field data", CURL_ZERO_TERMINATED);
 curl_mime_name(part, "data");

 /* Post and send it. */
 curl_easy_setopt(easy, CURLOPT_MIMEPOST, mime);
 curl_easy_setopt(easy, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
 curl_easy_perform(easy);

 /* Clean-up. */
 curl_easy_cleanup(easy);
 curl_mime_free(mime);
.SH AVAILABILITY
As long as at least one of HTTP, SMTP or IMAP is enabled. Added in 7.56.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
A mime struct handle, or NULL upon failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_mime_addpart "(3),"
.BR curl_mime_subparts "(3),"
.BR curl_mime_free "(3),"
.BR CURLOPT_MIMEPOST "(3)"
