.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_easy_option_by_name 3 "27 Aug 2020" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
curl_easy_option_by_name - find an easy setopt option by name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

const struct curl_easyoption *curl_easy_option_by_name(const char *name);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Given a \fBname\fP, this function returns a pointer to the
\fIcurl_easyoption\fP struct, holding information about the
\fIcurl_easy_setopt(3)\fP option using that name. The name should be specified
without the "CURLOPT_" prefix and the name comparison is made case
insensitive.

If libcurl has no option with the given name, this function returns NULL.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
const struct curl_easyoption *opt = curl_easy_option_by_name("URL");
if(opt) {
  printf("This option wants CURLoption %x\\n", (int)opt->id);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This function was added in libcurl 7.73.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
A pointer to the \fIcurl_easyoption\fP struct for the option or NULL.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_option_next "(3)," curl_easy_option_by_id "(3),"
.BR curl_easy_setopt "(3),"
