.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_multi_remove_handle 3 "6 March 2002" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
curl_multi_remove_handle - remove an easy handle from a multi session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLMcode curl_multi_remove_handle(CURLM *multi_handle, CURL *easy_handle);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Removes a given \fIeasy_handle\fP from the \fImulti_handle\fP. This makes the
specified easy handle be removed from this multi handle's control.

When the easy handle has been removed from a multi stack, it is again
perfectly legal to invoke \fIcurl_easy_perform(3)\fP on this easy handle.

Removing an easy handle while being in use is perfectly legal and effectively
halts the transfer in progress involving that easy handle. All other easy
handles and transfers remain unaffected.

It is fine to remove a handle at any time during a transfer, just not from
within any libcurl callback function.

Removing an easy handle from the multi handle before the corresponding
transfer is complete might cause libcurl to close the connection - if the
state of it and the internal protocol handler deem it necessary. Otherwise
libcurl keeps the connection alive in the connection pool associated with the
multi handle, ready to get reused for a future transfer using this multi
handle.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* when an easy handle has completed, remove it */
msg = curl_multi_info_read(multi_handle, &queued);
if(msg) {
  if(msg->msg == CURLMSG_DONE) {
    /* a transfer ended */
    fprintf(stderr, "Transfer completed\\n");
    curl_multi_remove_handle(multi_handle, msg->easy_handle);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.9.6
.SH RETURN VALUE
CURLMcode type, general libcurl multi interface error code.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_multi_add_handle (3),
.BR curl_multi_cleanup (3),
.BR curl_multi_init (3)
