.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_share_init 3 "Aug 3, 2003" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
curl_share_init - Create a shared object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLSH *curl_share_init();
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function returns a pointer to a \fICURLSH\fP handle to be used as input
to all the other share-functions, sometimes referred to as a share handle in
some places in the documentation. This init call MUST have a corresponding
call to \fIcurl_share_cleanup(3)\fP when all operations using the share are
complete.

This \fIshare handle\fP is what you pass to curl using the
\fICURLOPT_SHARE(3)\fP option with \fIcurl_easy_setopt(3)\fP, to make that
specific curl handle use the data in this share.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURLSHcode sh;
  CURLSH *share = curl_share_init();
  sh = curl_share_setopt(share, CURLSHOPT_SHARE, CURL_LOCK_DATA_CONNECT);
  if(sh)
    printf("Error: %s\\n", curl_share_strerror(sh));
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.10
.SH RETURN VALUE
If this function returns NULL, something went wrong (out of memory, etc.)
and therefore the share object was not created.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_share_cleanup (3),
.BR curl_share_setopt (3)
