.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_multi_init 3 "1 March 2002" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
curl_multi_init - create a multi handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLM *curl_multi_init();
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function returns a pointer to a \fICURLM\fP handle to be used as input to
all the other multi-functions, sometimes referred to as a multi handle in some
places in the documentation. This init call MUST have a corresponding call to
\fIcurl_multi_cleanup(3)\fP when the operation is complete.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* init a multi stack */
multi_handle = curl_multi_init();

/* add individual transfers */
curl_multi_add_handle(multi_handle, http_handle);
curl_multi_add_handle(multi_handle, http_handle2);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.9.6
.SH RETURN VALUE
If this function returns NULL, something went wrong and you cannot use the
other curl functions.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_multi_cleanup (3),
.BR curl_multi_add_handle (3),
.BR curl_multi_get_handles (3),
.BR curl_global_init (3),
.BR curl_easy_init (3)

