.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_slist_free_all 3 "5 March 2001" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
curl_slist_free_all - free an entire curl_slist list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

void curl_slist_free_all(struct curl_slist *list);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
curl_slist_free_all() removes all traces of a previously built curl_slist
linked list.

Passing in a NULL pointer in \fIlist\fP makes this function return immediately
with no action.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *handle;
struct curl_slist *slist=NULL;

slist = curl_slist_append(slist, "X-libcurl: coolness");

if (slist == NULL)
  return -1;

curl_easy_setopt(handle, CURLOPT_HTTPHEADER, slist);

curl_easy_perform(handle);

curl_slist_free_all(slist); /* free the list again */
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Nothing.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_slist_append "(3), "
