.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_global_trace 3 "01 August 2023" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
curl_global_trace - Global libcurl logging configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_global_trace(const char *config);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function configures the logging behavior, allowing to make some
parts of curl more verbose or silent than others.

This function may be called during the initialization phase of a program. It
does not have to be. It can be called several times even, possibly overwriting
settings of previous calls.

Calling this function after transfers have been started is undefined. On
some platforms/architectures it might take effect, on others not.

This function is thread-safe since libcurl 8.3.0 if
\fIcurl_version_info(3)\fP has the CURL_VERSION_THREADSAFE feature bit set
(most platforms).

If this is not thread-safe, you must not call this function when any other
thread in the program (i.e. a thread sharing the same memory) is running.
This does not just mean no other thread that is using libcurl. Because
\fIcurl_global_init(3)\fP may call functions of other libraries that are
similarly thread unsafe, it could conflict with any other thread that uses
these other libraries.

If you are initializing libcurl from a Windows DLL you should not initialize
it from \fIDllMain\fP or a static initializer because Windows holds the loader
lock during that time and it could cause a deadlock.

The \fIconfig\fP string is a list of comma-separated component names. Names
are case-insensitive and unknown names are ignored. The special name "all"
applies to all components. Names may be prefixed with '+' or '-' to enable
or disable detailed logging for a component.

The list of component names is not part of curl's public API. Names may be
added or disappear in future versions of libcurl. Since unknown names are
silently ignored, outdated log configurations does not cause errors when
upgrading libcurl. Given that, some names can be expected to be fairly stable
and are listed below for easy reference.

Note that log configuration applies only to transfers where debug logging
is enabled. See \fICURLOPT_VERBOSE(3)\fP or \fICURLOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION(3)\fP
on how to control that.

.SH TRACE COMPONENTS
.IP tcp
Tracing of TCP socket handling: connect, reads, writes.
.IP ssl
Tracing of SSL/TLS operations, whichever SSL backend is used in your build.
.IP http/2
Details about HTTP/2 handling: frames, events, I/O, etc.
.IP http/3
Details about HTTP/3 handling: connect, frames, events, I/O etc.
.IP http-proxy
Involved when transfers are tunneled through a HTTP proxy. "h1-proxy" or
"h2-proxy" are also involved, depending on the HTTP version negotiated with
the proxy.

In order to find out all components involved in a transfer, run it with "all"
configured. You can then see all names involved in your libcurl version in the
trace.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
 /* log details of HTTP/2 and SSL handling */
 curl_global_trace("http/2,ssl");

 /* log all details, except SSL handling */
 curl_global_trace("all,-ssl");
.fi

Below is a trace sample where "http/2" was configured. The trace output
of an enabled component appears at the beginning in brackets.
.nf
* [HTTP/2] [h2sid=1] cf_send(len=96) submit https://example.com/
...
* [HTTP/2] [h2sid=1] FRAME[HEADERS]
* [HTTP/2] [h2sid=1] 249 header bytes
...
.fi

.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 8.3
.SH RETURN VALUE
If this function returns non-zero, something went wrong and the configuration
may not have any effects or may only been applied partially.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_global_init (3),
.BR libcurl (3)
