.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2022, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_strequal 3 "30 April 2004" "libcurl 7.12" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_strequal, curl_strnequal - case insensitive string comparisons
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

int curl_strequal(char *str1, char *str2);
int curl_strnequal(char *str1, char *str2, size_t length);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B curl_strequal()
function compares the two strings \fIstr1\fP and \fIstr2\fP, ignoring the case
of the characters. It returns a non-zero (TRUE) integer if the strings are
identical.
.sp
The \fBcurl_strnequal()\fP function is similar, except it only compares the
first \fIlength\fP characters of \fIstr1\fP.
.sp
These functions are provided by libcurl to enable applications to compare
strings in a truly portable manner. There are no standard portable case
insensitive string comparison functions. These two work on all platforms.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
if(curl_strequal(name, input))
  printf("Name and input matches\\n");
if(curl_strnequal(name, input, 5))
  printf("Name and input matches in the 5 first bytes\\n");
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Non-zero if the strings are identical. Zero if they are not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR strcmp "(3), " strcasecmp "(3)"
