.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_easy_option_by_id 3 "27 Aug 2020" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
curl_easy_option_by_id - find an easy setopt option by id
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

const struct curl_easyoption *curl_easy_option_by_id(CURLoption id);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Given a \fICURLoption\fP \fBid\fP, this function returns a pointer to the
\fIcurl_easyoption\fP struct, holding information about the
\fIcurl_easy_setopt(3)\fP option using that id. The option id is the CURLOPT_
prefix ones provided in the standard curl/curl.h header file. This function
returns the non-alias version of the cases where there is an alias function as
well.

If libcurl has no option with the given id, this function returns NULL.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  const struct curl_easyoption *opt = curl_easy_option_by_id(CURLOPT_URL);
  if(opt) {
    printf("This option wants type %x\\n", opt->type);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This function was added in libcurl 7.73.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
A pointer to the \fIcurl_easyoption\fP struct for the option or NULL.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_option_by_name (3),
.BR curl_easy_option_next (3),
.BR curl_easy_setopt (3)
