.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_url_dup 3 "6 Aug 2018" "libcurl" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_url_dup - duplicate a CURLU handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <curl/curl.h>

CURLU *curl_url_dup(CURLU *inhandle);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Duplicates a given CURLU \fIinhandle\fP and all its contents and returns a
pointer to a new CURLU handle. The new handle also needs to be freed with
\fIcurl_url_cleanup(3)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a new handle or NULL if out of memory.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
  CURLUcode rc;
  CURLU *url = curl_url();
  CURLU *url2;
  rc = curl_url_set(url, CURLUPART_URL, "https://example.com", 0);
  if(!rc) {
    url2 = curl_url_dup(url); /* clone it! */
    curl_url_cleanup(url2);
  }
  curl_url_cleanup(url);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in curl 7.62.0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_url_cleanup "(3), " curl_url "(3), " curl_url_set "(3), "
.BR curl_url_get "(3), " CURLOPT_CURLU "(3), "
