.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2011, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_multi_select 3 "12 Jul 2012" "libcurl 7.27.0" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_multi_select - polls on all easy handles in a multi handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLMcode curl_multi_select(CURLM *multi_handle,
                            int timeout_ms,
                            int *ret);
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function polls on all file descriptors used by the curl easy handles
contained in the given multi handle set.  It will block until activity is
detected on at least one of the handles or \fItimeout_ms\fP has passed.

If a non NULL pointer is passed for \fIret\fP, it will be populated with
the number of easy handles for which an interesting event occurred.
Applications should call \fIcurl_multi_perform(3)\fP if \fIret\fP contains
any value greater than zero since these sockets are in need of attention.
A value of 0 indicates that \fItimeout_ms\fP milliseconds passed without
activity, while a value of -1 indicates an internal error calling
\fIpoll(2)\fP or \fIselect(2)\fP.

.SH RETURN VALUE
CURLMcode type, general libcurl multi interface error code. See
\fIlibcurl-errors(3)\fP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_multi_fdset "(3), " curl_multi_perform "(3)"
