.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_mime_addpart 3 "22 August 2017" "libcurl 7.56.0" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_mime_addpart - append a new empty part to a mime structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <curl/curl.h>
.sp
.BI "curl_mimepart * curl_mime_addpart(curl_mime * " mime ");"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcurl_mime_addpart(3)\fP creates and appends a new empty part to the given
mime structure and returns a handle to it.  The returned part handle can
subsequently be populated using functions from the mime API.

\fImime\fP is the handle of the mime structure in which the new part must be
appended.
.SH AVAILABILITY
As long as at least one of HTTP, SMTP or IMAP is enabled. Added in 7.56.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
A mime part structure handle, or NULL upon failure.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
 curl_mime *mime;
 curl_mimepart *part;

 /* create a mime handle */
 mime = curl_mime_init(easy);

 /* add a part */
 part = curl_mime_addpart(mime);

 /* continue and set name + data to the part */
 curl_mime_data(part, "This is the field data", CURL_ZERO_TERMINATED);
 curl_mime_name(part, "data");
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_mime_init "(3),"
.BR curl_mime_name "(3),"
.BR curl_mime_data "(3),"
.BR curl_mime_data_cb "(3),"
.BR curl_mime_filedata "(3),"
.BR curl_mime_filename "(3),"
.BR curl_mime_subparts "(3),"
.BR curl_mime_type "(3),"
.BR curl_mime_headers "(3),"
.BR curl_mime_encoder "(3)"
