.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_pushheader_bynum 3 "9 Jun 2023" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
curl_pushheader_bynum - get a push header by index
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

char *curl_pushheader_bynum(struct curl_pushheaders *h, size_t num);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a function that is only functional within a
\fICURLMOPT_PUSHFUNCTION(3)\fP callback. It makes no sense to try to use it
elsewhere and it has no function then.

It returns the value for the header field at the given index \fBnum\fP, for
the incoming server push request or NULL. The data pointed to is freed by
libcurl when this callback returns. The returned pointer points to a
"name:value" string that gets freed when this callback returns.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* output all the incoming push request headers */
int curl_push_callback(CURL *parent,
                       CURL *easy,
                       size_t num_headers,
                       struct curl_pushheaders *headers,
                       void *clientp)
{
  sizt_t i = 0;
  char *field;
  do {
     field = curl_pushheader_bynum(headers, i);
     if(field)
       fprintf(stderr, "Push header: %s\\n", field);
     i++;
  } while(field);
  return CURL_PUSH_OK; /* permission granted */
}

curl_multi_setopt(multi, CURLMOPT_PUSHFUNCTION, curl_push_callback);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.44.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a pointer to the header field content or NULL.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLMOPT_PUSHFUNCTION "(3)," curl_pushheader_byname "(3),"
