.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_multi_get_handles 3 "28 August 2023" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
curl_multi_get_handles - returns all added easy handles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURL **curl_multi_get_handles(CURLM *multi_handle);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Returns an array with pointers to all added easy handles. The end of the list
is marked with a NULL pointer.

Even if there is not a single easy handle added, this still returns an array
but with only a single NULL pointer entry.

The returned array contains all the handles that are present at the time of
the call. As soon as a handle has been removed from or a handle has been added
to the multi handle after the handle array was returned, the two data points
are out of sync.

The order of the easy handles within the array is not guaranteed.

The returned array must be freed with a call to \fIcurl_free(3)\fP after use.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  /* init a multi stack */
  CURLM *multi = curl_multi_init();
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();

  if(curl) {
    /* add the transfer */
    curl_multi_add_handle(multi, curl);

    /* extract all added handles */
    CURL **list = curl_multi_get_handles(multi);

    if(list) {
      int i;
      /* remove all added handles */
      for(i = 0; list[i]; i++) {
        curl_multi_remove_handle(multi, list[i]);
      }
      curl_free(list);
    }
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 8.4.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns NULL on failure. Otherwise it returns a pointer to an allocated array.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_multi_add_handle (3),
.BR curl_multi_cleanup (3),
.BR curl_multi_init (3),
.BR curl_multi_remove_handle (3)
