.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2022, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_mime_free 3 "22 August 2017" "libcurl 7.56.0" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_mime_free - free a previously built mime structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

void curl_mime_free(curl_mime *mime);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcurl_mime_free(3)\fP is used to clean up data previously built/appended
with \fIcurl_mime_addpart(3)\fP and other mime-handling functions. This must
be called when the data has been used, which typically means after
\fIcurl_easy_perform(3)\fP has been called.

The handle to free is the one you passed to
the \fICURLOPT_MIMEPOST(3)\fP option: attached subparts mime structures must
not be explicitly freed as they are by the top structure freeing.

\fBmime\fP is the handle as returned from a previous call to
\fIcurl_mime_init(3)\fP and may be NULL.

Passing in a NULL pointer in \fImime\fP will make this function return
immediately with no action.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
  /* Build the mime message. */
  mime = curl_mime_init(curl);

  /* ... */

  /* Free multipart message. */
  curl_mime_free(mime);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
As long as at least one of HTTP, SMTP or IMAP is enabled. Added in 7.56.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
None
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_mime_init "(3)"
