.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_mime_headers 3 "22 August 2017" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
curl_mime_headers - set a mime part's custom headers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_mime_headers(curl_mimepart *part,
                           struct curl_slist *headers, int take_ownership);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcurl_mime_headers(3)\fP sets a mime part's custom headers.

\fIpart\fP is the part's handle to assign the custom headers list to.

\fIheaders\fP is the head of a list of custom headers; it may be set to NULL
to remove a previously attached custom header list.

\fItake_ownership\fP: when non-zero, causes the list to be freed upon
replacement or mime structure deletion; in this case the list must not be
freed explicitly.

Setting a part's custom headers list multiple times is valid: only the value
set by the last call is retained.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  struct curl_slist *headers = NULL;
  CURL *easy = curl_easy_init();
  curl_mime *mime;
  curl_mimepart *part;

  headers = curl_slist_append(headers, "Custom-Header: mooo");

  mime = curl_mime_init(easy);
  part = curl_mime_addpart(mime);

  /* use these headers in the part, takes ownership */
  curl_mime_headers(part, headers, 1);

  /* pass on this data */
  curl_mime_data(part, "12345679", CURL_ZERO_TERMINATED);

  /* set name */
  curl_mime_name(part, "numbers");

  /* Post and send it. */
  curl_easy_setopt(easy, CURLOPT_MIMEPOST, mime);
  curl_easy_setopt(easy, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  curl_easy_perform(easy);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
As long as at least one of HTTP, SMTP or IMAP is enabled. Added in 7.56.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CURLE_OK or a CURL error code upon failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_mime_addpart (3),
.BR curl_mime_name (3)
