.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_mime_encoder 3 "22 August 2017" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
curl_mime_encoder - set a mime part's encoder and content transfer encoding
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_mime_encoder(curl_mimepart *part, const char *encoding);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
curl_mime_encoder() requests a mime part's content to be encoded before being
transmitted.

\fIpart\fP is the part's handle to assign an encoder.
\fIencoding\fP is a pointer to a null-terminated encoding scheme. It may be
set to NULL to disable an encoder previously attached to the part. The encoding
scheme storage may safely be reused after this function returns.

Setting a part's encoder multiple times is valid: only the value set by the
last call is retained.

Upon multipart rendering, the part's content is encoded according to the
pertaining scheme and a corresponding \fI"Content-Transfer-Encoding"\fP header
is added to the part.

Supported encoding schemes are:
.br
"\fIbinary\fP": the data is left unchanged, the header is added.
.br
"\fI8bit\fP": header added, no data change.
.br
"\fI7bit\fP": the data is unchanged, but is each byte is checked
to be a 7-bit value; if not, a read error occurs.
.br
"\fIbase64\fP": Data is converted to base64 encoding, then split in
CRLF-terminated lines of at most 76 characters.
.br
"\fIquoted-printable\fP": data is encoded in quoted printable lines of
at most 76 characters. Since the resulting size of the final data cannot be
determined prior to reading the original data, it is left as unknown, causing
chunked transfer in HTTP. For the same reason, this encoder may not be used
with IMAP. This encoder targets text data that is mostly ASCII and should
not be used with other types of data.

If the original data is already encoded in such a scheme, a custom
\fIContent-Transfer-Encoding\fP header should be added with
\fIcurl_mime_headers(3)\fP instead of setting a part encoder.

Encoding should not be applied to multiparts, thus the use of this function on
a part with content set with \fIcurl_mime_subparts(3)\fP is strongly
discouraged.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  curl_mime *mime;
  curl_mimepart *part;

  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    /* create a mime handle */
    mime = curl_mime_init(curl);

    /* add a part */
    part = curl_mime_addpart(mime);

    /* send a file */
    curl_mime_filedata(part, "image.png");

    /* encode file data in base64 for transfer */
    curl_mime_encoder(part, "base64");
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
As long as at least one of HTTP, SMTP or IMAP is enabled. Added in 7.56.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CURLE_OK or a CURL error code upon failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_mime_addpart (3),
.BR curl_mime_headers (3),
.BR curl_mime_subparts (3)
