.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH curl_easy_cleanup 3 "22 Aug 2007" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
curl_easy_cleanup - End a libcurl easy handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

void curl_easy_cleanup(CURL *handle);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function must be the last function to call for an easy session. It is the
opposite of the \fIcurl_easy_init(3)\fP function and must be called with the
same \fIhandle\fP as input that a \fIcurl_easy_init(3)\fP call returned.

This might close all connections this handle has used and possibly has kept
open until now - unless it was attached to a multi handle while doing the
transfers. Do not call this function if you intend to transfer more files,
re-using handles is a key to good performance with libcurl.

Occasionally you may get your progress callback or header callback called from
within \fIcurl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP (if previously set for the handle using
\fIcurl_easy_setopt(3)\fP). Like if libcurl decides to shut down the
connection and the protocol is of a kind that requires a command/response
sequence before disconnect. Examples of such protocols are FTP, POP3 and IMAP.

Any use of the \fBhandle\fP after this function has been called and have
returned, is illegal. \fIcurl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP kills the handle and all
memory associated with it!

To close an easy handle that has been used with the multi interface, make sure
to call \fIcurl_multi_remove_handle(3)\fP first to remove it from the multi
handle before it is closed.

Passing in a NULL pointer in \fIhandle\fP will make this function return
immediately with no action.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  CURLcode res;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.1
.SH RETURN VALUE
None
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_init "(3), " curl_easy_duphandle "(3), "
.BR curl_easy_reset "(3), "
.BR curl_multi_cleanup "(3), " curl_multi_remove_handle "(3) "
