.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2022, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_mime_data 3 "22 August 2017" "libcurl 7.56.0" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_mime_data - set a mime part's body data from memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_mime_data(curl_mimepart *part, const char *data,
                        size_t datasize);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcurl_mime_data(3)\fP sets a mime part's body content from memory data.

\fIpart\fP is the mime part to assign contents to, created with
\fIcurl_mime_addpart(3)\fP.

\fIdata\fP points to the data that gets copied by this function. The storage
may safely be reused after the call.

\fIdatasize\fP is the number of bytes \fIdata\fP points to. It can be set to
\fICURL_ZERO_TERMINATED\fP to indicate \fIdata\fP is a null-terminated
character string.

Setting a part's contents multiple times is valid: only the value set by the
last call is retained. It is possible to unassign part's contents by setting
\fIdata\fP to NULL.

Setting large data is memory consuming: one might consider using
\fIcurl_mime_data_cb(3)\fP in such a case.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
 curl_mime *mime;
 curl_mimepart *part;

 /* create a mime handle */
 mime = curl_mime_init(easy);

 /* add a part */
 part = curl_mime_addpart(mime);

 /* add data to the part  */
 curl_mime_data(part, "raw contents to send", CURL_ZERO_TERMINATED);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
As long as at least one of HTTP, SMTP or IMAP is enabled. Added in 7.56.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CURLE_OK or a CURL error code upon failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_mime_addpart "(3),"
.BR curl_mime_data_cb "(3),"
.BR curl_mime_name "(3),"
.BR curl_mime_type "(3)"
