.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_pushheader_byname 3 "9 Jun 2023" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
curl_pushheader_byname - get a push header by name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

char *curl_pushheader_byname(struct curl_pushheaders *h, const char *name);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a function that is only functional within a
\fICURLMOPT_PUSHFUNCTION(3)\fP callback. It makes no sense to try to use it
elsewhere and it has no function then.

It returns the value for the given header field name (or NULL) for the
incoming server push request. This is a shortcut so that the application does
not have to loop through all headers to find the one it is interested in. The
data this function points to is freed when this callback returns. If more than
one header field use the same name, this returns only the first one.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int curl_push_callback(CURL *parent,
                       CURL *easy,
                       size_t num_headers,
                       struct curl_pushheaders *headers,
                       void *clientp)
{
  char *headp;
  int *transfers = (int *)clientp;
  FILE *out;
  headp = curl_pushheader_byname(headers, ":path");
  if(headp && !strncmp(headp, "/push-", 6)) {
    fprintf(stderr, "The PATH is %s\\n", headp);

    /* save the push here */
    out = fopen("pushed-stream", "wb");

    /* write to this file */
    curl_easy_setopt(easy, CURLOPT_WRITEDATA, out);

    (*transfers)++; /* one more */

    return CURL_PUSH_OK;
  }
  return CURL_PUSH_DENY;
}

curl_multi_setopt(multi, CURLMOPT_PUSHFUNCTION, curl_push_callback);
curl_multi_setopt(multi, CURLMOPT_PUSHDATA, &counter);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.44.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a pointer to the header field content or NULL.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLMOPT_PUSHFUNCTION "(3)," curl_pushheader_bynum "(3), "
