.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_easy_option_next 3 "27 Aug 2020" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
curl_easy_option_next - iterate over easy setopt options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

const struct curl_easyoption *
curl_easy_option_next(const struct curl_easyoption *prev);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function returns a pointer to the first or the next \fIcurl_easyoption\fP
struct, providing an ability to iterate over all known options for
\fIcurl_easy_setopt(3)\fP in this instance of libcurl.

Pass a \fBNULL\fP argument as \fBprev\fP to get the first option returned, or
pass in the current option to get the next one returned. If there is no more
option to return, \fIcurl_easy_option_next(3)\fP returns NULL.

The options returned by this functions are the ones known to this libcurl and
information about what argument type they want.

If the \fBCURLOT_FLAG_ALIAS\fP bit is set in the flags field, it means the
name is provided for backwards compatibility as an alias.
.SH struct
.nf
typedef enum {
  CURLOT_LONG,    /* long (a range of values) */
  CURLOT_VALUES,  /*      (a defined set or bitmask) */
  CURLOT_OFF_T,   /* curl_off_t (a range of values) */
  CURLOT_OBJECT,  /* pointer (void *) */
  CURLOT_STRING,  /*         (char * to null-terminated buffer) */
  CURLOT_SLIST,   /*         (struct curl_slist *) */
  CURLOT_CBPTR,   /*         (void * passed as-is to a callback) */
  CURLOT_BLOB,    /* blob (struct curl_blob *) */
  CURLOT_FUNCTION /* function pointer */
} curl_easytype;

/* The CURLOPTTYPE_* id ranges can still be used to figure out what type/size
   to use for curl_easy_setopt() for the given id */
struct curl_easyoption {
  const char *name;
  CURLoption id;
  curl_easytype type;
  unsigned int flags;
};
.fi
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  /* iterate over all available options */
  const struct curl_easyoption *opt;
  opt = curl_easy_option_next(NULL);
  while(opt) {
    printf("Name: %s\\n", opt->name);
    opt = curl_easy_option_next(opt);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This function was added in libcurl 7.73.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
A pointer to the \fIcurl_easyoption\fP struct for the next option or NULL if
no more options.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_option_by_id (3),
.BR curl_easy_option_by_name (3),
.BR curl_easy_setopt (3)
