.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_multi_cleanup 3 "1 March 2002" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
curl_multi_cleanup - close down a multi session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLMcode curl_multi_cleanup(CURLM *multi_handle);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Cleans up and removes a whole multi stack. It does not free or touch any
individual easy handles in any way - they still need to be closed
individually, using the usual \fIcurl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP way. The order of
cleaning up should be:

1 - \fIcurl_multi_remove_handle(3)\fP before any easy handles are cleaned up

2 - \fIcurl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP can now be called independently since the easy
handle is no longer connected to the multi handle

3 - \fIcurl_multi_cleanup(3)\fP should be called when all easy handles are
removed

Passing in a NULL pointer in \fImulti_handle\fP makes this function return
CURLM_BAD_HANDLE immediately with no other action.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURLM *multi = curl_multi_init();

  /* when the multi transfer is done ... */

  /* remove all easy handles, then: */
  curl_multi_cleanup(multi);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.9.6
.SH RETURN VALUE
CURLMcode type, general libcurl multi interface error code. On success,
CURLM_OK is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_cleanup (3),
.BR curl_multi_get_handles (3),
.BR curl_easy_init (3),
.BR curl_multi_init (3)
