.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_multi_wait 3 "12 Jul 2012" "libcurl 7.28.0" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_multi_wait - polls on all easy handles in a multi handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLMcode curl_multi_wait(CURLM *multi_handle,
                          struct curl_waitfd extra_fds[],
                          unsigned int extra_nfds,
                          int timeout_ms,
                          int *numfds);
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcurl_multi_wait(3)\fP polls all file descriptors used by the curl easy
handles contained in the given multi handle set. It will block until activity
is detected on at least one of the handles or \fItimeout_ms\fP has passed.
Alternatively, if the multi handle has a pending internal timeout that has a
shorter expiry time than \fItimeout_ms\fP, that shorter time will be used
instead to make sure timeout accuracy is reasonably kept.

The calling application may pass additional \fIcurl_waitfd\fP structures which
are similar to \fIpoll(2)\fP's \fIpollfd\fP structure to be waited on in the
same call.

On completion, if \fInumfds\fP is non-NULL, it will be populated with the
total number of file descriptors on which interesting events occurred. This
number can include both libcurl internal descriptors as well as descriptors
provided in \fIextra_fds\fP.

If no extra file descriptors are provided and libcurl has no file descriptor
to offer to wait for, this function will return immediately. (Try
\fIcurl_multi_poll(3)\fP instead if you rather avoid this behavior.)

This function is encouraged to be used instead of select(3) when using the
multi interface to allow applications to easier circumvent the common problem
with 1024 maximum file descriptors.
.SH curl_waitfd
.nf
struct curl_waitfd {
  curl_socket_t fd;
  short events;
  short revents;
};
.fi
.IP CURL_WAIT_POLLIN
Bit flag to \fIcurl_waitfd.events\fP indicating the socket should poll on read
events such as new data received.
.IP CURL_WAIT_POLLPRI
Bit flag to \fIcurl_waitfd.events\fP indicating the socket should poll on high
priority read events such as out of band data.
.IP CURL_WAIT_POLLOUT
Bit flag to \fIcurl_waitfd.events\fP indicating the socket should poll on
write events such as the socket being clear to write without blocking.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *easy_handle;
CURLM *multi_handle;

/* add the individual easy handle */
curl_multi_add_handle(multi_handle, easy_handle);

do {
  CURLMcode mc;
  int numfds;

  mc = curl_multi_perform(multi_handle, &still_running);

  if(mc == CURLM_OK ) {
    /* wait for activity, timeout or "nothing" */
    mc = curl_multi_wait(multi_handle, NULL, 0, 1000, &numfds);
  }

  if(mc != CURLM_OK) {
    fprintf(stderr, "curl_multi failed, code %d.\\n", mc);
    break;
  }

  /* 'numfds' being zero means either a timeout or no file descriptors to
     wait for. Try timeout on first occurrence, then assume no file
     descriptors and no file descriptors to wait for means wait for 100
     milliseconds. */

  if(!numfds) {
    repeats++; /* count number of repeated zero numfds */
    if(repeats > 1) {
      WAITMS(100); /* sleep 100 milliseconds */
    }
  }
  else
    repeats = 0;

} while(still_running);

curl_multi_remove_handle(multi_handle, easy_handle);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This function was added in libcurl 7.28.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CURLMcode type, general libcurl multi interface error code. See
\fIlibcurl-errors(3)\fP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_multi_fdset "(3), " curl_multi_perform "(3)", curl_multi_poll "(3) ",
