.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 2018 - 2021, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH libcurl-env 3 "20 January 2018" "libcurl 7.58.0" "libcurl environment variables"
.SH NAME
libcurl-env \- environment variables libcurl understands
.SH DESCRIPTION
libcurl reads and understands a set of environment variables that if set will
control and change behaviors. This is the full list of variables to set and
description of what they do. Also note that curl, the command line tool,
supports a set of additional environment variables independently of this.
.IP "[scheme]_proxy"
When libcurl is given a URL to use in a transfer, it first extracts the
"scheme" part from the URL and checks if there is a given proxy set for that
in its corresponding environment variable. A URL like "https://example.com"
will hence use the "http_proxy" variable, while a URL like "ftp://example.com"
will use the "ftp_proxy" variable.

These proxy variables are also checked for in their uppercase versions, except
the "http_proxy" one which is only used lowercase. Note also that some systems
actually have a case insensitive handling of environment variables and then of
course "HTTP_PROXY" will still work...
.IP ALL_PROXY
This is a setting to set proxy for all URLs, independently of what scheme is
being used. Note that the scheme specific variables will override this one if
set.
.IP CURL_SSL_BACKEND
When libcurl is built to support multiple SSL backends, it will select a
specific backend at first use. If no selection is done by the program using
libcurl, this variable's selection will be used. Setting a name that isn't a
built-in alternative will make libcurl stay with the default.

SSL backend names (case-insensitive): bearssl, gnutls, gskit, mbedtls,
mesalink, nss, openssl, rustls, schannel, secure-transport, wolfssl
.IP HOME
When the netrc feature is used (\fICURLOPT_NETRC(3)\fP), this variable is
checked as the primary way to find the "current" home directory in which
the .netrc file is likely to exist.
.IP LOGNAME
User name to use when invoking the ntlm-wb tool, if NTLMUSER wasn't set.
.IP NO_PROXY
This has the same functionality as the \fICURLOPT_NOPROXY(3)\fP option: it
gives libcurl a comma-separated list of host name patterns for which libcurl
should not use a proxy.
.IP NTLMUSER
User name to use when invoking the ntlm-wb tool.
.IP SSLKEYLOGFILE
When set and libcurl runs with a SSL backend that supports this feature,
libcurl will save SSL secrets into the given file name. Using those SSL
secrets, other tools (such as Wireshark) can decrypt the SSL communication and
analyze/view the traffic.
.IP SSL_DIR
When libcurl runs with the NSS backends for TLS features, this variable is
used to find the directory for NSS PKI database instead of the built-in.
.IP USER
User name to use when invoking the ntlm-wb tool, if NTLMUSER and LOGNAME
weren't set.
.SH "Debug Variables"
There's a set of variables only recognized and used if libcurl was built
"debug enabled", which should never be true for a library used in production.
.IP "CURL_GETHOSTNAME"
Debug-only variable.
.IP "CURL_FORCETIME"
Debug-only variable.
.IP "CURL_ENTROPY"
Debug-only variable. Used to set a fixed faked value to use instead of a
proper random number so that functions in libcurl that are otherwise getting
random outputs can be tested for what they generate.
.IP "CURL_TRACE"
Debug-only variable. Used for debugging the lib/ldap implementation.
.IP "CURL_NTLM_WB_FILE"
Debug-only variable. Used to set to a debug-version of the ntlm-wb executable.
.IP "CURL_OPENLDAP_TRACE"
Debug-only variable. Used for debugging the lib/openldap.c implementation.
