.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH libcurl-thread 3 "13 Jul 2015" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
libcurl-thread \- libcurl thread safety
.SH "Multi-threading with libcurl"
libcurl is thread safe but has no internal thread synchronization. You may have
to provide your own locking should you meet any of the thread safety exceptions
below.

.SH "Handles"
You must \fBnever\fP share the same handle in multiple threads.  You can pass
the handles around among threads, but you must never use a single handle from
more than one thread at any given time.
.SH "Shared objects"
You can share certain data between multiple handles by using the share
interface but you must provide your own locking and set
\fIcurl_share_setopt(3)\fP CURLSHOPT_LOCKFUNC and CURLSHOPT_UNLOCKFUNC.

Note that some items are specifically documented as not thread-safe in the
share API (the connection pool and HSTS cache for example).
.SH TLS
If you are accessing HTTPS or FTPS URLs in a multi-threaded manner, you are
then of course using the underlying SSL library multi-threaded and those libs
might have their own requirements on this issue. You may need to provide one
or two functions to allow it to function properly:
.IP OpenSSL
OpenSSL 1.1.0+ "can be safely used in multi-threaded applications provided that
support for the underlying OS threading API is built-in." In that case the
engine is used by libcurl in a way that is fully thread-safe.

https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.0/man3/CRYPTO_THREAD_run_once.html#DESCRIPTION

OpenSSL <= 1.0.2 the user must set callbacks.

https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.0.2/man3/CRYPTO_set_locking_callback.html#DESCRIPTION

https://curl.se/libcurl/c/opensslthreadlock.html

.IP GnuTLS
https://gnutls.org/manual/html_node/Thread-safety.html
.IP NSS
thread-safe already without anything required.
.IP Secure-Transport
The engine is used by libcurl in a way that is fully thread-safe.
.IP Schannel
The engine is used by libcurl in a way that is fully thread-safe.
.IP wolfSSL
The engine is used by libcurl in a way that is fully thread-safe.
.IP BoringSSL
The engine is used by libcurl in a way that is fully thread-safe.
.IP AWS-LC
The engine is used by libcurl in a way that is fully thread-safe.
.SH "Signals"
Signals are used for timing out name resolves (during DNS lookup) - when built
without using either the c-ares or threaded resolver backends. When using
multiple threads you should set the \fICURLOPT_NOSIGNAL(3)\fP option to 1L for
all handles. Everything will or might work fine except that timeouts are not
honored during the DNS lookup - which you can work around by building libcurl
with c-ares or threaded-resolver support. c-ares is a library that provides
asynchronous name resolves. On some platforms, libcurl simply will not
function properly multi-threaded unless the \fICURLOPT_NOSIGNAL(3)\fP option
is set.

When \fICURLOPT_NOSIGNAL(3)\fP is set to 1L, your application needs to deal
with the risk of a SIGPIPE (that at least the OpenSSL backend can
trigger). Note that setting \fICURLOPT_NOSIGNAL(3)\fP to 0L will not work in a
threaded situation as there will be race where libcurl risks restoring the
former signal handler while another thread should still ignore it.
.SH "Name resolving"
The \fBgethostbyname\fP or \fBgetaddrinfo\fP and other name resolving system
calls used by libcurl are provided by your operating system and must be thread
safe. It is important that libcurl can find and use thread safe versions of
these and other system calls, as otherwise it cannot function fully thread
safe. Some operating systems are known to have faulty thread
implementations. We have previously received problem reports on *BSD (at least
in the past, they may be working fine these days). Some operating systems that
are known to have solid and working thread support are Linux, Solaris and
Windows.
.SH "curl_global_* functions"
These functions are thread-safe since libcurl 7.84.0 if
\fIcurl_version_info(3)\fP has the \fBCURL_VERSION_THREADSAFE\fP feature bit
set (most platforms).

If these functions are not thread-safe and you are using libcurl with multiple
threads it is especially important that before use you call
\fIcurl_global_init(3)\fP or \fIcurl_global_init_mem(3)\fP to explicitly
initialize the library and its dependents, rather than rely on the "lazy"
fail-safe initialization that takes place the first time
\fIcurl_easy_init(3)\fP is called. For an in-depth explanation refer to
\fIlibcurl(3)\fP section \fBGLOBAL CONSTANTS\fP.
.SH "Memory functions"
These functions, provided either by your operating system or your own
replacements, must be thread safe. You can use \fIcurl_global_init_mem(3)\fP
to set your own replacement memory functions.
.SH "Non-safe functions"
\fICURLOPT_DNS_USE_GLOBAL_CACHE(3)\fP is not thread-safe.

\fIcurl_version_info(3)\fP is not thread-safe before libcurl initialization.
