.\" $Id$
.\"
.TH curl_multi_info_read 3 "1 March 2002" "libcurl 7.9.5" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_multi_info_read - read multi stack informationals
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLMsg *curl_multi_info_read( CURLM *multi_handle,
                               int *msgs_in_queue);
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
Ask the multi handle if there's any messages/informationals from the
individual transfers. Messages include informationals such as an error code
from the transfer or just the fact that a transfer is completed. More details
on these should be written down as well.

Repeated calls to this function will return a new struct each time, until a
special "end of msgs" struct is returned as a signal that there is no more to
get at this point. The integer pointed to with \fImsgs_in_queue\fP will
contain the number of remaining messages after this function was called.

The data the returned pointer points to will not survive calling
curl_multi_cleanup().

The 'CURLMsg' struct is very simple and only contain very basic informations.
If more involved information is wanted, the particular "easy handle" in
present in that struct and can thus be used in subsequent regular
curl_easy_getinfo() calls (or similar).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
A pointer to a filled-in struct, or NULL if it failed or ran out of
structs. It also writes the number of messages left in the queue (after this
read) in the integer the second argument points to.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_multi_cleanup "(3)," curl_multi_init "(3)," curl_multi_perform "(3)"
