.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_HSTS_PRELOAD_FILE 3 "13 Sep 2019" "libcurl 7.67.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_HSTS_PRELOAD_FILE \- specify a source for hsts preload data
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_HSTS_PRELOAD_FILE, char *path);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * to a zero terminated file name. It must be a DAFSA file and
is read from to preload libhsts.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL, not used
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_HSTS_PRELOAD_FILE, "/var/lib/hsts.dafsa");
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.67.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK on success or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
