.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2021, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_SSL_SESS_FUNCTION 3 "22 Jul 2021" "libcurl 7.79.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_SSL_SESS_FUNCTION \- SSL new session callback for OpenSSL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode ssl_sess_callback(CURL *curl, const struct ssl_session_dump *dump,
                           void *userptr);

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_SSL_SESS_FUNCTION,
                          ssl_sess_callback);
.SH DESCRIPTION
This option only works for libcurl powered by OpenSSL. If libcurl was built
against another SSL library this functionality is absent.

Pass a pointer to your callback function, which should match the prototype
shown above.

This callback function gets called by libcurl after a new SSL session has been
established. The \fIdump\fP parameter is actually a pointer to a structure
that contains the details of the new session, that can be stored (persistently)
and later loaded using \fICURLOPT_SSL_CACHE_FUNCTION(3)\fP option. If an error
is returned from the callback it will be logged, but libcurl will continue
execution. Set the \fIuserptr\fP argument with the
\fICURLOPT_SSL_SESS_DATA(3)\fP option.

This function will get called on all new SSL sessions established with a
server.

.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS based protocols: HTTPS, FTPS, IMAPS, POP3S, SMTPS etc.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.79.0 for OpenSSL. Other SSL backends are not supported.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CURLE_OK if supported; or an error such as:

CURLE_NOT_BUILT_IN - Not supported by the SSL backend

CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_SSL_SESS_DATA "(3), " CURLOPT_SSL_CACHE_FUNCTION "(3), "
 CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER "(3), "
