.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_POSTFIELDSIZE_LARGE 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_POSTFIELDSIZE_LARGE \- size of POST data pointed to
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_POSTFIELDSIZE_LARGE,
                          curl_off_t size);
.SH DESCRIPTION
If you want to post static data to the server without having libcurl do a
strlen() to measure the data size, this option must be used. When this option
is used you can post fully binary data, which otherwise is likely to fail. If
this size is set to -1, libcurl uses strlen() to get the size or relies on the
\fICURLOPT_READFUNCTION(3)\fP (if used) to signal the end of data.
.SH DEFAULT
-1
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP(S)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
extern char *large_chunk; /* pointer to somewhere */

int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    const char *data = large_chunk;
    curl_off_t length_of_data; /* set somehow */

    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

    /* size of the POST data */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_POSTFIELDSIZE_LARGE, length_of_data);

    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_POSTFIELDS, data);

    curl_easy_perform(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Along with HTTP
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if HTTP is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_COPYPOSTFIELDS (3),
.BR CURLOPT_POSTFIELDS (3),
.BR CURLOPT_POSTFIELDSIZE (3)
