.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_MAIL_AUTH 3 "19 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_MAIL_AUTH \- SMTP authentication address
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_MAIL_AUTH, char *auth);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a null-terminated string as parameter. This is used to
specify the authentication address (identity) of a submitted message that is
being relayed to another server.

This optional parameter allows co-operating agents in a trusted environment to
communicate the authentication of individual messages and should only be used
by the application program, using libcurl, if the application is itself a mail
server acting in such an environment. If the application is operating as such
and the AUTH address is not known or is invalid, then an empty string should
be used for this parameter.

Unlike \fICURLOPT_MAIL_FROM(3)\fP and \fICURLOPT_MAIL_RCPT(3)\fP, the address
should not be specified within a pair of angled brackets (<>). However, if an
empty string is used then a pair of brackets are sent by libcurl as required
by RFC 2554.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
SMTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode res;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "smtp://example.com/");
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_MAIL_AUTH, "<secret@cave>");
    res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
    curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.25.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_MAIL_FROM (3),
.BR CURLOPT_MAIL_RCPT (3)
