.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2022, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_SSH_HOSTKEYFUNCTION 3 "4 Nov 2021" "libcurl 7.84.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_SSH_HOSTKEYFUNCTION \- callback to check hostkey (to overwrite the functionality known_host file)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

int sshhostkeycallback(void *clientp,/* custom pointer passed with CURLOPT_SSH_HOSTKEYDATA */
                          int keytype, /* CURLKHTYPE */
                          const char * key, /*hostkey to check*/
                          size_t keylen); /*length of the key*/

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_SSH_HOSTKEYFUNCTION,
                          sshhostkeycallback);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to your callback function, which should match the prototype
shown above. It overrides CURLOPT_SSH_KNOWNHOSTS.

It gets called when the verification of the hostkey is needed.

This callback function gets passed a custom pointer (set with
\fICURLOPT_SSH_HOSTKEYDATA(3)\fP, the libcurl keytype, the hostkey,
the length of the key.
It MUST return one of the following return codes to tell libcurl how to act:
.IP CURLKHMATCH_OK
The hostkey is accepted, the connexion should continue.
.IP CURLKHMATCH_MISMATCH
the hostkey is rejected, the connexion is canceled.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
SCP and SFTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int sshhostkeycallback(void *clientp,/* custom pointer passed with CURLOPT_SSH_HOSTKEYDATA */
                          int keytype, /* CURLKHTYPE */
                          const char * key, /*hostkey to check*/
                          size_t keylen); /*length of the key*/
{
  /* 'clientp' points to the callback_data struct */
  /* investigate the situation and return the correct value */
  return CURLKHMATCH_OK;
}
{
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "sftp://example.com/thisfile.txt");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SSH_HOSTKEYFUNCTION, sshhostkeycallback);
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SSH_HOSTKEYDATA, &callback_data);

  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.84.0 , work only with libssh2 backend.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_SSH_HOSTKEYDATA "(3), "
