.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2018, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_H3 3 "27 Nov 2018" "libcurl 7.64.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_H3 \- specify HTTP/3 protocol behavior
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_H3, long bitmask);
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function accepts a long \fIbitmask\fP with a set of flags set that
controls the HTTP/3 behavior for this transfer.
.IP "CURLH3_DIRECT"
If this bit is set in \fIbitmask\fP, the host name and port number given in
the URL will be used to connect to directly with QUIC and the port number then
being a UDP port number.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTPS
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  CURLcode ret;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_H3, (long)CURLH3_DIRECT);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.64.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if supported, an error otherwise.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_HTTP_VERSION "(3), "
