.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_TRAILERDATA 3 "14 Aug 2018" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_TRAILERDATA \- pointer passed to trailing headers callback
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_TRAILERDATA, void *userdata);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Data pointer to be passed to the HTTP trailer callback function.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* Assuming we have a CURL handle in the hndl variable. */

struct MyData data;

curl_easy_setopt(hndl, CURLOPT_TRAILERDATA, &data);
.fi

A more complete example can be found in examples/http_trailers.html
.SH AVAILABILITY
This option was added in curl 7.64.0 and is present if HTTP support is enabled
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_TRAILERFUNCTION "(3), "
