.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_TOTAL_TIME 3 "28 Aug 2015" "libcurl 7.44.0" "curl_easy_getinfo options"
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_TOTAL_TIME \- get total time of previous transfer
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_TOTAL_TIME, double *timep);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a double to receive the total time in seconds for the
previous transfer, including name resolving, TCP connect etc. The double
represents the time in seconds, including fractions.

See also the TIMES overview in the \fIcurl_easy_getinfo(3)\fP man page.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  double total;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, url);
  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  if(CURLE_OK == res) {
    res = curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_TOTAL_TIME, &total);
    if(CURLE_OK == res) {
      printf("Time: %.1f", total);
    }
  }
  /* always cleanup */
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.4.1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo "(3), " curl_easy_setopt "(3), " CURLINFO_TOTAL_TIME_T "(3)"
