.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_KEYPASSWD 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_KEYPASSWD \- passphrase to private key
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_KEYPASSWD, char *pwd);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a null-terminated string as parameter. It is used as the
password required to use the \fICURLOPT_SSLKEY(3)\fP or
\fICURLOPT_SSH_PRIVATE_KEYFILE(3)\fP private key.  You never need a pass
phrase to load a certificate but you need one to load your private key.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS based protocols: HTTPS, FTPS, IMAPS, POP3S, SMTPS etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode res;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/foo.bin");
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SSLCERT, "client.pem");
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SSLKEY, "key.pem");
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_KEYPASSWD, "superman");
    res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
    curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This option was known as CURLOPT_SSLKEYPASSWD up to 7.16.4 and
CURLOPT_SSLCERTPASSWD up to 7.9.2.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if TLS enabled, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_SSH_PRIVATE_KEYFILE (3),
.BR CURLOPT_SSLKEY (3)
