.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_STDERR 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_STDERR \- redirect stderr to another stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_STDERR, FILE *stream);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a FILE * as parameter. Tell libcurl to use this \fIstream\fP instead of
stderr when showing the progress meter and displaying \fICURLOPT_VERBOSE(3)\fP
data.

If you are using libcurl as a Windows DLL, this option causes an exception and
a crash in the library since it cannot access a FILE * passed on from the
application. A work-around is to instead use \fICURLOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION(3)\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
stderr
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
FILE *filep = fopen("dump", "wb");
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_STDERR, filep);

  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_VERBOSE (3),
.BR CURLOPT_NOPROGRESS (3),
.BR CURLOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION (3)

