.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPINTVL 3 "19 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPINTVL \- TCP keep-alive interval
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPINTVL, long interval);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. Sets the interval, in seconds, to wait between sending keepalive
probes. Not all operating systems support this option. (Added in 7.25.0)

The maximum value this accepts is 2147483648. Any larger value is capped to
this amount.
.SH DEFAULT
60
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* enable TCP keep-alive for this transfer */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPALIVE, 1L);

  /* set keep-alive idle time to 120 seconds */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPIDLE, 120L);

  /* interval time between keep-alive probes: 60 seconds */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPINTVL, 60L);

  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPALIVE "(3), " CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPIDLE "(3), "
