.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_IGNORE_CONTENT_LENGTH 3 "19 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_IGNORE_CONTENT_LENGTH \- ignore content length
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_IGNORE_CONTENT_LENGTH,
                          long ignore);
.SH DESCRIPTION
If \fIignore\fP is set to 1L, ignore the Content-Length header in the HTTP
response and ignore asking for or relying on it for FTP transfers.

This is useful for doing HTTP transfers with ancient web servers which report
incorrect content length for files over 2 gigabytes. If this option is used,
curl cannot accurately report progress, and it instead stops the download when
the server ends the connection.

It is also useful with FTP when for example the file is growing while the
transfer is in progress which otherwise unconditionally causes libcurl to
report error.

Only use this option if strictly necessary.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

    /* we know the server is silly, ignore content-length */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_IGNORE_CONTENT_LENGTH, 1L);

    curl_easy_perform(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.14.1. Support for FTP added in 7.46.0. This option is not working
for HTTP when libcurl is built to use the hyper backend.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_HTTP_VERSION (3),
.BR CURLOPT_MAXFILESIZE_LARGE (3)
