.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2022, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_TLS13_CIPHERS 3 "25 May 2018" "libcurl 7.61.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_TLS13_CIPHERS \- ciphers suites to use for TLS 1.3
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_TLS13_CIPHERS, char *list);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char *, pointing to a null-terminated string holding the list of cipher
suites to use for the TLS 1.3 connection. The list must be syntactically
correct, it consists of one or more cipher suite strings separated by colons.

you will find more details about cipher lists on this URL:

 https://curl.se/docs/ssl-ciphers.html

This option is currently used only when curl is built to use OpenSSL 1.1.1 or
later. If you are using a different SSL backend you can try setting TLS 1.3
cipher suites by using the CURLOPT_SSL_CIPHER_LIST option.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL, use internal default
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS based protocols: HTTPS, FTPS, IMAPS, POP3S, SMTPS etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TLS13_CIPHERS,
                   "TLS13-CHACHA20-POLY1305-SHA256");
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.61.0.
Available when built with OpenSSL >= 1.1.1.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if supported, CURLE_NOT_BUILT_IN otherwise.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_SSL_CIPHER_LIST "(3), " CURLOPT_SSLVERSION "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_PROXY_SSL_CIPHER_LIST "(3), " CURLOPT_PROXY_TLS13_CIPHERS "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLVERSION "(3), " CURLOPT_USE_SSL "(3), "
