.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLCERT_BLOB 3 "24 Jun 2020" "libcurl 7.71.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLCERT_BLOB \- SSL proxy client certificate from memory blob
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLCERT_BLOB, struct curl_blob *blob);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a curl_blob structure, which contains information (pointer
and size) about a memory block with binary data of the certificate used to
connect to the HTTPS proxy. The format must be "P12" on Secure Transport or
Schannel. The format must be "P12" or "PEM" on OpenSSL.  The string "P12" or
"PEM" must be specified with \fICURLOPT_PROXY_SSLCERTTYPE(3)\fP.

If the blob is initialized with the flags member of struct curl_blob set to
CURL_BLOB_COPY, the application does not have to keep the buffer around after
setting this.

This option is an alternative to \fICURLOPT_PROXY_SSLCERT(3)\fP which instead
expects a file name as input.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS based protocols: HTTPS, FTPS, IMAPS, POP3S, SMTPS etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  struct curl_blob blob;
  blob.data = certificateData;
  blob.len = filesize;
  blob.flags = CURL_BLOB_COPY;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY, "https://proxy");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLKEY, "key.pem");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY_KEYPASSWD, "s3cret");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLCERT_BLOB, &blob);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in libcurl 7.71.0. This option is supported by the OpenSSL, Secure
Transport and Schannel backends.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if TLS enabled, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLCERTTYPE "(3), " CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLKEY "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLCERT "(3), "
