.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYSTATUS 3 "04 Dec 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYSTATUS \- verify the certificate's status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYSTATUS, long verify);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as parameter set to 1 to enable or 0 to disable.

This option determines whether libcurl verifies the status of the server cert
using the "Certificate Status Request" TLS extension (aka. OCSP stapling).

Note that if this option is enabled but the server does not support the TLS
extension, the verification fails.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS based protocols: HTTPS, FTPS, IMAPS, POP3S, SMTPS etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  /* ask for OCSP stapling! */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYSTATUS, 1L);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.41.0. This option is currently only supported by the OpenSSL and
GnuTLS TLS backends.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if OCSP stapling is supported by the SSL backend, otherwise
returns CURLE_NOT_BUILT_IN.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYHOST (3),
.BR CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER (3),
.BR CURLOPT_CAINFO (3)
