.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2022, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_UNRESTRICTED_AUTH 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_UNRESTRICTED_AUTH \- send credentials to other hosts too
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_UNRESTRICTED_AUTH,
                          long goahead);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Set the long \fIgohead\fP parameter to 1L to make libcurl continue to send
authentication (user+password) credentials when following locations, even when
hostname changed. This option is meaningful only when setting
\fICURLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION(3)\fP.

Further, when this option is not used or set to \fB0L\fP, libcurl will not
send custom set nor internally generated Authentication: headers on requests
done to other hosts than the one used for the initial URL.

By default, libcurl will only send credentials and Authentication headers to
the initial host name as given in the original URL, to avoid leaking username
+ password to other sites.

This option should be used with caution: when curl follows redirects it
blindly fetches the next URL as instructed by the server. Setting
\fICURLOPT_UNRESTRICTED_AUTH(3)\fP to 1L will therefore also make curl trust
the server and send possibly sensitive credentials to a host the server points
out.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION, 1L);
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_UNRESTRICTED_AUTH, 1L);
  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Along with HTTP
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if HTTP is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION "(3), " CURLOPT_USERPWD "(3), "
