.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLSHOPT_VERBOSE 3 "17 Oct 2023" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLSHOPT_VERBOSE \- verbose mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLSHcode curl_share_setopt(CURLSH *share, CURLSHOPT_DEBUGDATA,
                             long onoff);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Set the \fIonoff\fP parameter to 1 to make the library display a lot of
verbose information about its operations on \fIhandle\fPs used with
this share.

\fICURLSHOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION(3)\fP, \fICURLSHOPT_DEBUGDATA(3)\fP,
 \fICURLSHOPT_VERBOSE(3)\fP and \fICURLSHOPT_STDERR(3)\fP can be used
as defaults for all easy handles that use the same share. They are also
used for internal handles, for example when closing cached connections.

They take effect only for easy handles when this share is set for them
using \fICURLOPT_SHARE(3)\fP. They only apply to easy handles that have
default values for \fICURLOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION(3)\fP, \fICURLOPT_DEBUGDATA(3)\fP,
\fICURLOPT_VERBOSE(3)\fP and \fICURLOPT_STDERR(3)\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
This is treated as if set to 0 by default.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
main()
{
  struct data my_tracedata;

  share = curl_share_init();
  curl_share_setopt(share, CURLSHOPT_VERBOSE, 1L);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This option was added in libcurl 8.5.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_VERBOSE (3),
.BR CURLSHOPT_DEBUGDATA (3),
.BR CURLSHOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION (3),
.BR CURLSHOPT_STDERR (3)
