.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_REDIR_PROTOCOLS_STR 3 "19 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_REDIR_PROTOCOLS_STR \- protocols allowed to redirect to
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_REDIR_PROTOCOLS_STR,
                          char *spec);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a string that holds a comma-separated list of case
insensitive protocol names (URL schemes). That list limits what protocols
libcurl may use in a transfer that it follows to in a redirect when
\fICURLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION(3)\fP is enabled. This option allows applications to
limit specific transfers to only be allowed to use a subset of protocols in
redirections.

Protocols denied by \fICURLOPT_PROTOCOLS_STR(3)\fP are not overridden by this
option.

By default libcurl allows HTTP, HTTPS, FTP and FTPS on redirects (since
7.65.2).

These are the available protocols:

DICT, FILE, FTP, FTPS, GOPHER, GOPHERS, HTTP, HTTPS, IMAP, IMAPS, LDAP, LDAPS,
MQTT, POP3, POP3S, RTMP, RTMPE, RTMPS, RTMPT, RTMPTE, RTMPTS, RTSP, SCP, SFTP,
SMB, SMBS, SMTP, SMTPS, TELNET, TFTP, WS, WSS

You can set "ALL" as a short-cut to enable all protocols. Note that by setting
all, you may enable protocols that were not supported the day you write this
but are introduced in a future libcurl version.

If trying to set a non-existing protocol or if no matching protocol at all is
set, it returns error.
.SH DEFAULT
HTTP, HTTPS, FTP and FTPS (Added in 7.65.2).

Older versions defaulted to all protocols except FILE, SCP and since 7.40.0
SMB and SMBS.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(int argc, char **argv)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    /* pass in the URL from an external source */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, argv[1]);

    /* only allow redirects to HTTP and HTTPS URLs */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_REDIR_PROTOCOLS_STR, "http,https");

    /* Perform the request */
    curl_easy_perform(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.85.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if the option is not implemented,
CURLE_UNSUPPORTED_PROTOCOL if a listed protocol is not supported or disabled,
CURLE_BAD_FUNCTION_ARGUMENT if no protocol is listed else CURLE_OK.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_PROTOCOLS_STR (3),
.BR CURLINFO_SCHEME (3),
.BR CURLOPT_DEFAULT_PROTOCOL (3),
.BR CURLOPT_PROTOCOLS (3),
.BR CURLOPT_REDIR_PROTOCOLS (3)
