.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_SHARE 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_SHARE \- share handle to use
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_SHARE, CURLSH *share);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a \fIshare\fP handle as a parameter. The share handle must have been
created by a previous call to \fIcurl_share_init(3)\fP. Setting this option,
makes this curl handle use the data from the shared handle instead of keeping
the data to itself. This enables several curl handles to share data. If the
curl handles are used simultaneously in multiple threads, you \fBMUST\fP use
the locking methods in the share handle. See \fIcurl_share_setopt(3)\fP for
details.

If you add a share that is set to share cookies, your easy handle uses that
cookie cache and get the cookie engine enabled. If you stop sharing an object
that was using cookies (or change to another object that does not share
cookies), the easy handle gets its cookie engine disabled.

Data that the share object is not set to share is dealt with the usual way, as
if no share was used.

Set this option to NULL again to stop using that share object.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
CURL *curl2 = curl_easy_init(); /* a second handle */
if(curl) {
  CURLSH *shobject = curl_share_init();
  curl_share_setopt(shobject, CURLSHOPT_SHARE, CURL_LOCK_DATA_COOKIE);

  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_COOKIEFILE, "");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SHARE, shobject);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);

  /* the second handle shares cookies from the first */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl2, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/second");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl2, CURLOPT_COOKIEFILE, "");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl2, CURLOPT_SHARE, shobject);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl2);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl2);

  curl_share_cleanup(shobject);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_COOKIE "(3), "
