.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2021, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_IPTIMEOUT_MS 3 "30 Mar 2021" "libcurl 7.77.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_IPTIMEOUT_MS \- connection timeout per address
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_IPTIMEOUT_MS, long timeout);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. It should contain the maximum time in milliseconds that you allow
a connect attempt to a single IP address to take.

When \fICURLOPT_IPTIMEOUT_MS(3)\fP is at 0, libcurl allows half the remaining
time for each new connect attempt if there are more addresses to try - and it
tries both IPv4 and IPv6 in parallel. See the connect description below.

When \fICURLOPT_IPTIMEOUT_MS(3)\fP is set to a non-zero value, this is the
maximum time allowed for each individual connect to an IP address attempt.
Independently of the number of addresses libcurl will try.

The \fICURLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT_MS(3)\fP timeout still sets the limit for the
maximum time the entire connection phase is allowed to take and
\fICURLOPT_TIMEOUT_MS(3)\fP sets the limit for the entire transfer.
.SH "CONNECT TIMEOUT HALFING"
This "half method" is used when \fICURLOPT_IPTIMEOUT_MS(3)\fP is not set.

libcurl resolves the host name and gets a set of addresses back. "example.com"
gets converted into let's say 3 IPv4 addresses and 2 IPv6 addresses. If
\fICURLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT_MS(3)\fP sets the timeout to 10 seconds, libcurl
will first allow 5 seconds (half of 10) to complete both an IPv4 and an IPv6
connect attempt. The first to complete a connection wins.

If any of them fails early, the next address in line will be attempted at
once. If they instead both timeout after the 5 seconds, libcurl will move on
to try the next IPv4 and IPv6 addresses and since there are no more IPv6
address in the list will now allow the full 5 remaining seconds for that but
as there more IPv4 addresses it will only give 2.5 seconds (half of the
remaining 5) for that connect attempt.
.SH "CONNECT TIMEOUT PER ADDRESS"
This timeout method is used when \fICURLOPT_IPTIMEOUT_MS(3)\fP is set to a
non-zero value.

libcurl resolves the host name and gets a set of addresses back. "example.com"
gets converted into let's say 3 IPv4 addresses and 2 IPv6 addresses. If
\fICURLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT_MS(3)\fP sets the timeout to 10 seconds and
\fICURLOPT_IPTIMEOUT_MS(3)\fP is set to 4 seconds, libcurl will first allow 4
seconds to complete both an IPv4 and an IPv6 connect attempt. The first to
complete a connection wins.

If any of them fails early, the next address in line will be attempted at
once. If they instead timeout after the 4 seconds, libcurl will move on to try
more IPv4 and IPv6 addresses and again give them 4 seconds each to
complete. This continues until it runs out of adresses or the total timeout is
reached. If all addresses timeout, the third IPv4 address will only get 2
seconds to complete since the first two got 4 each.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* spend only 500 milliseconds per connect attempt */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_IPTIMEOUT_MS, 500L);

  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.77.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT_MS "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_TIMEOUT_MS "(3), " CURLOPT_LOW_SPEED_LIMIT "(3), "
