.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2019, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_PINNEDPUBLICKEY 3 "27 Aug 2014" "libcurl 7.38.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_PINNEDPUBLICKEY \- set pinned public key
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_PINNEDPUBLICKEY, char *pinnedpubkey);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a null-terminated string as parameter. The string can be the
file name of your pinned public key. The file format expected is "PEM" or "DER".
The string can also be any number of base64 encoded sha256 hashes preceded by
"sha256//" and separated by ";"

When negotiating a TLS or SSL connection, the server sends a certificate
indicating its identity. A public key is extracted from this certificate and
if it does not exactly match the public key provided to this option, curl will
abort the connection before sending or receiving any data.

On mismatch, \fICURLE_SSL_PINNEDPUBKEYNOTMATCH\fP is returned.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS based protocols: HTTPS, FTPS, IMAPS, POP3S, SMTPS etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PINNEDPUBLICKEY, "/etc/publickey.der");
  /* OR
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PINNEDPUBLICKEY, "sha256//YhKJKSzoTt2b5FP18fvpHo7fJYqQCjAa3HWY3tvRMwE=;sha256//t62CeU2tQiqkexU74Gxa2eg7fRbEgoChTociMee9wno=");
  */

  /* Perform the request */
  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH PUBLIC KEY EXTRACTION
If you do not have the server's public key file you can extract it from the
server's certificate.
.nf
# retrieve the server's certificate if you don't already have it
#
# be sure to examine the certificate to see if it is what you expected
#
# Windows-specific:
# - Use NUL instead of /dev/null.
# - OpenSSL may wait for input instead of disconnecting. Hit enter.
# - If you don't have sed, then just copy the certificate into a file:
#   Lines from -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE----- to -----END CERTIFICATE-----.
#
openssl s_client -servername www.example.com -connect www.example.com:443 < /dev/null | sed -n "/-----BEGIN/,/-----END/p" > www.example.com.pem

# extract public key in pem format from certificate
openssl x509 -in www.example.com.pem -pubkey -noout > www.example.com.pubkey.pem

# convert public key from pem to der
openssl asn1parse -noout -inform pem -in www.example.com.pubkey.pem -out www.example.com.pubkey.der

# sha256 hash and base64 encode der to string for use
openssl dgst -sha256 -binary www.example.com.pubkey.der | openssl base64
.fi
The public key in PEM format contains a header, base64 data and a
footer:
.nf
-----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----
[BASE 64 DATA]
-----END PUBLIC KEY-----
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
PEM/DER support:

  7.39.0: OpenSSL, GnuTLS

  7.39.0-7.48.0,7.58.1+: GSKit

  7.43.0: NSS and wolfSSL

  7.47.0: mbedtls

  7.54.1: SecureTransport on macOS 10.7+/iOS 10+

  7.58.1: SChannel

sha256 support:

  7.44.0: OpenSSL, GnuTLS, NSS and wolfSSL

  7.47.0: mbedtls

  7.54.1: SecureTransport on macOS 10.7+/iOS 10+

  7.58.1: SChannel Windows XP SP3+

Other SSL backends not supported.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if TLS enabled, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYHOST "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_CAINFO "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_CAPATH "(3), "
