.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2018, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_PSL_TTL 3 "24 May 2018" "libcurl 7.61.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_PSL_TTL \- set life-time of cached Public Suffix List
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_PSL_TTL, long seconds);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long, this sets the time to live in seconds. PSL associated with the
handle will be refreshed after this number of seconds. Set to zero to
completely disable PSL caching, or set to -1 to make it remain forever.
By default, libcurl caches this info for 1 hour.

If the handle uses a PSL cache in a shared object, all easy handle using
the same shared object may be affected when a PSL cache refresh occurs.
Similarly, If the handle has been attached to a multi handle, all sibling
handles share the same PSL cache, thus refreshing the PSL cache may also have
an impact on these siblings.

Currently, Public Suffix List is only used to check cookies domain.
.SH DEFAULT
3600
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "http://example.com/foo.bin");

  /* export cookies to this file when closing the handle */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_COOKIEJAR, "/tmp/cookies.txt");

  /* Only reuse cached PSL for a very short time */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PSL_TTL, 2L);

  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);

  /* in this second request, the PSL cache will be refreshed if more than
     two seconds have passed since the previous request's cookie reception. */
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);

  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Only if PSL feature is compiled-in. Since 7.61.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_COOKIEJAR "(3)"
