.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_SASL_IR 3 "19 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_SASL_IR \- send initial response in first packet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_SASL_IR, long enable);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. If the value is 1, curl sends the initial response to the server
in the first authentication packet in order to reduce the number of ping pong
requests. Only applicable to the following supporting SASL authentication
mechanisms:

* Login
* Plain
* GSSAPI
* NTLM
* OAuth 2.0

Note: Whilst IMAP supports this option there is no need to explicitly set it,
as libcurl can determine the feature itself when the server supports the
SASL-IR CAPABILITY.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
IMAP, POP3 and SMTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "smtp://example.com/");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SASL_IR, 1L);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.31.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_MAIL_AUTH (3),
.BR CURLOPT_MAIL_FROM (3),
.BR CURLOPT_SASL_AUTHZID (3)
