.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_REDIRECT_TIME_T 3 "28 Apr 2018" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_REDIRECT_TIME_T \- get the time for all redirection steps
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_REDIRECT_TIME_T,
                           curl_off_t *timep);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a curl_off_t to receive the total time, in microseconds,
it took for
all redirection steps include name lookup, connect, pretransfer and transfer
before final transaction was started. \fICURLINFO_REDIRECT_TIME_T\fP contains
the complete execution time for multiple redirections.

See also the TIMES overview in the \fIcurl_easy_getinfo(3)\fP man page.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_off_t redirect;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, url);
  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  if(CURLE_OK == res) {
    res = curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_REDIRECT_TIME_T, &redirect);
    if(CURLE_OK == res) {
      printf("Time: %" CURL_FORMAT_CURL_OFF_T ".%06ld", redirect / 1000000,
             (long)(redirect % 1000000));
    }
  }
  /* always cleanup */
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.61.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo "(3), " curl_easy_setopt "(3), " CURLINFO_REDIRECT_TIME "(3)"
