.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2016, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_CUSTOMHTTPVERSION 3 "01 May 2016" "libcurl 7.49.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_CUSTOMHTTPVERSION \- set custom HTTP protocol version string
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_CUSTOMHTTPVERSION, char *version);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a zero terminated string as parameter. It will be used to
set the HTTP protocol version in the HTTP request sent to the remote server. This
can be used to fool servers or scripts.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL, the default HTTP protocol version is used (depending on chosen HTTP 1.0/1.1/2.0 operation mode).
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP, HTTPS
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "http://example.com");

  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_CUSTOMHTTPVERSION, "9.8");

  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
As long as HTTP is supported
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if HTTP is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_HTTP_VERSION "(3), "
