.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_CONDITION_UNMET 3 "1 Sep 2015" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_CONDITION_UNMET \- get info on unmet time conditional or 304 HTTP response.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_CONDITION_UNMET,
                           long *unmet);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a long to receive the number 1 if the condition provided in
the previous request did not match (see \fICURLOPT_TIMECONDITION(3)\fP). Alas,
if this returns a 1 you know that the reason you did not get data in return is
because it did not fulfill the condition. The long this argument points to will
get a zero stored if the condition instead was met. This can also return 1 if
the server responded with a 304 HTTP status code, for example after sending a
custom "If-Match-*" header.
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP and some
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* January 1, 2020 is 1577833200 */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TIMEVALUE, 1577833200L);

  /* If-Modified-Since the above time stamp */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TIMECONDITION,
                   (long)CURL_TIMECOND_IFMODSINCE);

  /* Perform the request */
  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);

  if(!res) {
    /* check the time condition */
    long unmet;
    res = curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_CONDITION_UNMET, &unmet);
    if(!res) {
      printf("The time condition was %sfulfilled\\n", unmet?"NOT":"");
    }
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.19.4
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo "(3), " curl_easy_setopt "(3), "
