.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_HSTSWRITEFUNCTION 3 "14 Sep 2020" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_HSTSWRITEFUNCTION \- write callback for HSTS hosts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

struct curl_hstsentry {
  char *name;
  size_t namelen;
  unsigned int includeSubDomains:1;
  char expire[18]; /* YYYYMMDD HH:MM:SS [null-terminated] */
};

struct curl_index {
  size_t index; /* the provided entry's "index" or count */
  size_t total; /* total number of entries to save */
};

CURLSTScode hstswrite(CURL *easy, struct curl_hstsentry *sts,
                      struct curl_index *count, void *clientp);

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_HSTSWRITEFUNCTION, hstswrite);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to your callback function, as the prototype shows above.

This callback function gets called by libcurl repeatedly to allow the
application to store the in-memory HSTS cache when libcurl is about to discard
it.

Set the \fIclientp\fP argument with the \fICURLOPT_HSTSWRITEDATA(3)\fP option
or it is NULL.
When the callback is invoked, the \fIsts\fP pointer points to a populated
struct: Read the host name to 'name' (it is \fInamelen\fP bytes long and null
terminated. The \fIincludeSubDomains\fP field is non-zero if the entry matches
subdomains. The \fIexpire\fP string is a date stamp null-terminated string
using the syntax YYYYMMDD HH:MM:SS.

The callback should return \fICURLSTS_OK\fP if it succeeded and is prepared to
be called again (for another host) or \fICURLSTS_DONE\fP if there is nothing
more to do. It can also return \fICURLSTS_FAIL\fP to signal error.

This option does not enable HSTS, you need to use \fICURLOPT_HSTS_CTRL(3)\fP to
do that.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL - no callback.
.SH PROTOCOLS
This feature is only used for HTTP(S) transfer.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
struct priv {
  void *custom;
};

static CURLSTScode hswr_cb(CURL *easy, struct curl_hstsentry *sts,
                           struct curl_index *count, void *clientp)
{
  /* save the passed in HSTS data somewhere */
  return CURLSTS_OK;
}

int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    struct priv my_stuff;
    CURLcode res;

    /* set HSTS read callback */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_HSTSWRITEFUNCTION, hswr_cb);

    /* pass in suitable argument to the callback */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_HSTSWRITEDATA, &my_stuff);

    res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.74.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
This returns CURLE_OK.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_HSTS (3),
.BR CURLOPT_HSTS_CTRL (3),
.BR CURLOPT_HSTSWRITEDATA (3),
.BR CURLOPT_HSTSWRITEFUNCTION (3)
