.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_SERVER_RESPONSE_TIMEOUT 3 "19 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_SERVER_RESPONSE_TIMEOUT \- time allowed to wait for server response
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_SERVER_RESPONSE_TIMEOUT,
                          long timeout);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long.  Causes libcurl to set a \fItimeout\fP period (in seconds) on the
amount of time that the server is allowed to take in order to send a response
message for a command before the session is considered dead.  While libcurl is
waiting for a response, this value overrides \fICURLOPT_TIMEOUT(3)\fP. It is
recommended that if used in conjunction with \fICURLOPT_TIMEOUT(3)\fP, you set
\fICURLOPT_SERVER_RESPONSE_TIMEOUT(3)\fP to a value smaller than
\fICURLOPT_TIMEOUT(3)\fP.

This option was formerly known as CURLOPT_FTP_RESPONSE_TIMEOUT.
.SH DEFAULT
None
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP, IMAP, POP3, SMTP, and SSH
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode res;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com/slow.txt");
    /* wait no more than 23 seconds */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SERVER_RESPONSE_TIMEOUT, 23L);
    res = curl_easy_perform(curl);

    curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.10.8. Used under this name since 7.20.0

Support for SSH is predicated on a new enough (1.11.0) version of libssh2
being available when compiling libcurl.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not. Returns
CURLE_BAD_FUNCTION_ARGUMENT if set to a negative value or a value that when
converted to milliseconds is too large.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT (3),
.BR CURLOPT_LOW_SPEED_LIMIT (3),
.BR CURLOPT_TIMEOUT (3)
