.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_PROXY_ERROR 3 "3 Aug 2020" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_PROXY_ERROR \- get the detailed (SOCKS) proxy error
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

typedef enum {
  CURLPX_OK,
  CURLPX_BAD_ADDRESS_TYPE,
  CURLPX_BAD_VERSION,
  CURLPX_CLOSED,
  CURLPX_GSSAPI,
  CURLPX_GSSAPI_PERMSG,
  CURLPX_GSSAPI_PROTECTION,
  CURLPX_IDENTD,
  CURLPX_IDENTD_DIFFER,
  CURLPX_LONG_HOSTNAME,
  CURLPX_LONG_PASSWD,
  CURLPX_LONG_USER,
  CURLPX_NO_AUTH,
  CURLPX_RECV_ADDRESS,
  CURLPX_RECV_AUTH,
  CURLPX_RECV_CONNECT,
  CURLPX_RECV_REQACK,
  CURLPX_REPLY_ADDRESS_TYPE_NOT_SUPPORTED,
  CURLPX_REPLY_COMMAND_NOT_SUPPORTED,
  CURLPX_REPLY_CONNECTION_REFUSED,
  CURLPX_REPLY_GENERAL_SERVER_FAILURE,
  CURLPX_REPLY_HOST_UNREACHABLE,
  CURLPX_REPLY_NETWORK_UNREACHABLE,
  CURLPX_REPLY_NOT_ALLOWED,
  CURLPX_REPLY_TTL_EXPIRED,
  CURLPX_REPLY_UNASSIGNED,
  CURLPX_REQUEST_FAILED,
  CURLPX_RESOLVE_HOST,
  CURLPX_SEND_AUTH,
  CURLPX_SEND_CONNECT,
  CURLPX_SEND_REQUEST,
  CURLPX_UNKNOWN_FAIL,
  CURLPX_UNKNOWN_MODE,
  CURLPX_USER_REJECTED,
  CURLPX_LAST /* never use */
} CURLproxycode;

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_PROXY_ERROR, long *detail);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a long to receive a detailed error code when the most recent
transfer returned a \fBCURLE_PROXY\fP error. That error code matches the
\fBCURLproxycode\fP set.

The error code is zero (\fBCURLPX_OK\fP) if no response code was available.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All that can be done over SOCKS
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  CURLcode res;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY, "socks5://127.0.0.1");
  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  if(res == CURLE_PROXY) {
    long proxycode;
    res = curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_PROXY_ERROR, &proxycode);
    if(!res && proxycode)
      printf("The detailed proxy error: %ld\\n", proxycode);
  }
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.73.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo (3),
.BR curl_easy_setopt (3),
.BR CURLINFO_RESPONSE_CODE (3),
.BR libcurl-errors (3)
