.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_QUICK_EXIT 3 "30 Sep 2022" "libcurl 7.87.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_QUICK_EXIT \- allow to exit quickly
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_QUICK_EXIT,
                          long value);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as a parameter, 1L meaning that when recovering from a timeout,
libcurl should skip lengthy cleanups that are intended to avoid all kinds of
leaks (threads etc.), as the caller program is about to call exit() anyway.
This allows for a swift termination after a DNS timeout for example, by
canceling and/or forgetting about a resolver thread, at the expense of a
possible (though short-lived) leak of associated resources.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  CURLcode ret;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_QUICK_EXIT, 1L);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.87.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_RESOLVE "(3), "
