.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_APPCONNECT_TIME 3 "28 Aug 2015" "libcurl 7.44.0" "curl_easy_getinfo options"
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_APPCONNECT_TIME \- get the time until the SSL/SSH handshake is completed
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_APPCONNECT_TIME, double *timep);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a double to receive the time, in seconds, it took from the
start until the SSL/SSH connect/handshake to the remote host was completed.
This time is most often very near to the \fICURLINFO_PRETRANSFER_TIME(3)\fP
time, except for cases such as HTTP pipelining where the pretransfer time can
be delayed due to waits in line for the pipeline and more.

See also the TIMES overview in the \fIcurl_easy_getinfo(3)\fP man page.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  double connect;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, url);
  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  if(CURLE_OK == res) {
    res = curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_APPCONNECT_TIME, &connect);
    if(CURLE_OK == res) {
      printf("Time: %.1f", connect);
    }
  }
  /* always cleanup */
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.19.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo "(3), " curl_easy_setopt "(3), "
