.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_GSSAPI_DELEGATION 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_GSSAPI_DELEGATION \- set allowed GSS-API delegation
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_GSSAPI_DELEGATION, long level);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Set the long parameter \fIlevel\fP to \fBCURLGSSAPI_DELEGATION_FLAG\fP to
allow unconditional GSSAPI credential delegation. The delegation is disabled
by default since 7.21.7.  Set the parameter to
\fBCURLGSSAPI_DELEGATION_POLICY_FLAG\fP to delegate only if the OK-AS-DELEGATE
flag is set in the service ticket in case this feature is supported by the
GSS-API implementation and the definition of GSS_C_DELEG_POLICY_FLAG was
available at compile-time.
.SH DEFAULT
CURLGSSAPI_DELEGATION_NONE
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  CURLcode ret;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  /* delegate if okayed by policy */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_GSSAPI_DELEGATION,
                         CURLGSSAPI_DELEGATION_POLICY_FLAG);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi

.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.22.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_HTTPAUTH "(3), " CURLOPT_PROXYAUTH "(3), "
