.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_FTP_SKIP_PASV_IP 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_FTP_SKIP_PASV_IP \- ignore the IP address in the PASV response
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_FTP_SKIP_PASV_IP, long rule);
.SH DESCRIPTION
URL_FTP_SKIP_PASV_IP_ALWAYS instructs libcurl to ignore the IP address the
server suggests in its 227-response to libcurl's PASV command when libcurl connects
the data connection. Instead libcurl will re-use the same IP address it already uses
for the control connection. But it will use the port number from the 227-response.
The allowed values are:
.IP CURL_FTP_SKIP_PASV_IP_NEVER
Always use the IP returned by the server.
.IP CURL_FTP_SKIP_PASV_IP_ALWAYS
Always ignore the IP returned by the server.
.IP CURL_FTP_SKIP_PASV_IP_IF_NOT_ROUTABLE
Only ignore the returned IP if it is within the private address space (see RFC1918),
which is a common server configuration error.

This option thus allows libcurl to work around broken server installations
that due to NATs, firewalls or incompetence report the wrong IP address back.

This option has no effect if PORT, EPRT or EPSV is used instead of PASV.
.SH DEFAULT
CURL_FTP_SKIP_PASV_IP_NEVER
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com/file.txt");

  /* please ignore the IP in the PASV response */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_FTP_SKIP_PASV_IP, CURL_FTP_SKIP_PASV_IP_ALWAYS);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);

  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.14.2
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_FTPPORT "(3), " CURLOPT_FTP_USE_EPRT "(3), "
