.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2019, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_CAINFO 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_CAINFO \- path to Certificate Authority (CA) bundle
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_CAINFO, char *path);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * to a null-terminated string naming a file holding one or more
certificates to verify the peer with.

If \fICURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER(3)\fP is zero and you avoid verifying the
server's certificate, \fICURLOPT_CAINFO(3)\fP need not even indicate an
accessible file.

This option is by default set to the system path where libcurl's cacert bundle
is assumed to be stored, as established at build time.

If curl is built against the NSS SSL library, the NSS PEM PKCS#11 module
(libnsspem.so) needs to be available for this option to work properly.
Starting with curl-7.55.0, if both \fICURLOPT_CAINFO(3)\fP and
\fICURLOPT_CAPATH(3)\fP are unset, NSS-linked libcurl tries to load
libnssckbi.so, which contains a more comprehensive set of trust information
than supported by nss-pem, because libnssckbi.so also includes information
about distrusted certificates.

(iOS and macOS) When curl uses Secure Transport this option is supported. If
the option is not set, then curl will use the certificates in the system and
user Keychain to verify the peer.

(Schannel) This option is supported for Schannel in Windows 7 or later but we
recommend not using it until Windows 8 since it works better starting then.
If the option is not set, then curl will use the certificates in the Windows'
store of root certificates (the default for Schannel).

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
Built-in system specific. When curl is built with Secure Transport or
Schannel, this option is not set by default.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS based protocols: HTTPS, FTPS, IMAPS, POP3S, SMTPS etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_CAINFO, "/etc/certs/cabundle.pem");
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
For the SSL engines that don't support certificate files the CURLOPT_CAINFO
option is ignored. Schannel support added in libcurl 7.60.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_CAPATH "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER "(3), " CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYHOST "(3), "
