.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_RESPONSE_CODE 3 "28 Aug 2015" "libcurl 7.44.0" "curl_easy_getinfo options"
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_RESPONSE_CODE \- get the last response code
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_RESPONSE_CODE, long *codep);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a long to receive the last received HTTP, FTP, SMTP or
LDAP (OpenLDAP only) response code. This option was previously known as
CURLINFO_HTTP_CODE in libcurl 7.10.7 and earlier.
The stored value will be zero if no server response code has been received.
Note that a proxy's CONNECT response should
be read with \fICURLINFO_HTTP_CONNECTCODE(3)\fP and not this.
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP, FTP, SMTP and LDAP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  CURLcode res;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  if(res == CURLE_OK) {
    long response_code;
    curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_RESPONSE_CODE, &response_code);
  }
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.10.8. CURLINFO_HTTP_CODE was added in 7.4.1.
Support for SMTP responses added in 7.25.0, for OpenLDAP in 7.81.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo "(3), " curl_easy_setopt "(3), "
.BR CURLINFO_HTTP_CONNECTCODE "(3), "
