.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_CAINFO_BLOB 3 "31 March 2021" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_CAINFO_BLOB \- Certificate Authority (CA) bundle in PEM format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_CAINFO_BLOB,
                          struct curl_blob *stblob);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a curl_blob structure, which contains information (pointer
and size) about a memory block with binary data of PEM encoded content holding
one or more certificates to verify the HTTPS server with.

If \fICURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER(3)\fP is zero and you avoid verifying the
server's certificate, \fICURLOPT_CAINFO_BLOB(3)\fP is not needed.

This option overrides \fICURLOPT_CAINFO(3)\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS based protocols: HTTPS, FTPS, IMAPS, POP3S, SMTPS etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
char *strpem; /* strpem must point to a PEM string */
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  struct curl_blob blob;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  blob.data = strpem;
  blob.len = strlen(strpem);
  blob.flags = CURL_BLOB_COPY;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_CAINFO_BLOB, &blob);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.77.0.

This option is supported by the BearSSL (since 7.79.0), mbedTLS (since 7.81.0),
rustls (since 7.82.0), wolfSSL (since 8.2.0), OpenSSL, Secure Transport and Schannel backends.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_CAINFO (3),
.BR CURLOPT_CAPATH (3),
.BR CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER (3),
.BR CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYHOST (3)
