.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_PROTOCOLS 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_PROTOCOLS \- set allowed protocols
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_PROTOCOLS, long bitmask);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long that holds a bitmask of CURLPROTO_* defines. If used, this bitmask
limits what protocols libcurl may use in the transfer. This allows you to have
a libcurl built to support a wide range of protocols but still limit specific
transfers to only be allowed to use a subset of them. By default libcurl will
accept all protocols it supports (\fICURLPROTO_ALL\fP). See also
\fICURLOPT_REDIR_PROTOCOLS(3)\fP.

These are the available protocol defines:
.nf
CURLPROTO_DICT
CURLPROTO_FILE
CURLPROTO_FTP
CURLPROTO_FTPS
CURLPROTO_GOPHER
CURLPROTO_HTTP
CURLPROTO_HTTPS
CURLPROTO_IMAP
CURLPROTO_IMAPS
CURLPROTO_LDAP
CURLPROTO_LDAPS
CURLPROTO_POP3
CURLPROTO_POP3S
CURLPROTO_RTMP
CURLPROTO_RTMPE
CURLPROTO_RTMPS
CURLPROTO_RTMPT
CURLPROTO_RTMPTE
CURLPROTO_RTMPTS
CURLPROTO_RTSP
CURLPROTO_SCP
CURLPROTO_SFTP
CURLPROTO_SMB
CURLPROTO_SMTP
CURLPROTO_SMTPS
CURLPROTO_TELNET
CURLPROTO_TFTP
.fi
.SH DEFAULT
All protocols built-in
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  /* pass in the URL from an external source */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, argv[1]);

  /* only allow HTTP, TFTP and SFTP */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROTOCOLS,
                   CURLPROTO_HTTP | CURLPROTO_TFTP | CURLPROTO_SFTP);

  /* Perform the request */
  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.19.4
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_REDIR_PROTOCOLS "(3), " CURLOPT_URL "(3), "
