.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_DISALLOW_USERNAME_IN_URL 3 "30 May 2018" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_DISALLOW_USERNAME_IN_URL \- disallow specifying username in the URL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_DISALLOW_USERNAME_IN_URL,
                          long disallow);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
A long parameter set to 1 tells the library to not allow URLs that include a
username.

This is the equivalent to the \fICURLU_DISALLOW_USER\fP flag for the
\fIcurl_url_set(3)\fP function.
.SH DEFAULT
0 (disabled) - user names are allowed by default.
.SH PROTOCOLS
Several
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {

  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_DISALLOW_USERNAME_IN_URL, 1L);

  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.61.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.

curl_easy_perform() returns CURLE_LOGIN_DENIED if this option is enabled and a
URL containing a username is specified.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libcurl-security "(3), ", CURLOPT_PROTOCOLS "(3), "
.BR curl_url_set "(3), "
