.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2022, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_SSH_AUTH_TYPES 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_SSH_AUTH_TYPES \- auth types for SFTP and SCP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_SSH_AUTH_TYPES, long bitmask);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long set to a bitmask consisting of one or more of
CURLSSH_AUTH_PUBLICKEY, CURLSSH_AUTH_PASSWORD, CURLSSH_AUTH_HOST,
CURLSSH_AUTH_KEYBOARD and CURLSSH_AUTH_AGENT.

Set \fICURLSSH_AUTH_ANY\fP to let libcurl pick a suitable one. Currently
CURLSSH_AUTH_HOST has no effect. If CURLSSH_AUTH_AGENT is used, libcurl
attempts to connect to ssh-agent or pageant and let the agent attempt the
authentication.
.SH DEFAULT
CURLSSH_AUTH_ANY (all availables ones)
.SH PROTOCOLS
SFTP and SCP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "sftp://example.com/file");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SSH_AUTH_TYPES,
                   CURLSSH_AUTH_PUBLICKEY | CURLSSH_AUTH_KEYBOARD);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
CURLSSH_AUTH_HOST was added in 7.16.1, CURLSSH_AUTH_AGENT was added in 7.28.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_SSH_HOST_PUBLIC_KEY_MD5 "(3), " CURLOPT_SSH_PUBLIC_KEYFILE "(3), "
