.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT \- timeout for the connect phase
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT, long timeout);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. It should contain the maximum time in seconds that you allow the
connection phase to the server to take. This timeout only limits the
connection phase, it has no impact once it has connected. Set to zero to
switch to the default built-in connection timeout - 300 seconds. See also the
\fICURLOPT_TIMEOUT(3)\fP option.

\fICURLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT_MS(3)\fP is the same function but set in milliseconds.

If both \fICURLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT(3)\fP and \fICURLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT_MS(3)\fP
are set, the value set last is used.

The "connection phase" is considered complete when the requested TCP, TLS or
QUIC handshakes are done.

The connection timeout set with \fICURLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT(3)\fP is included in
the general all-covering \fICURLOPT_TIMEOUT(3)\fP.

With \fICURLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT(3)\fP set to 3 and \fICURLOPT_TIMEOUT(3)\fP set
to 5, the operation can never last longer than 5 seconds, and the connection
phase cannot last longer than 3 seconds.

With \fICURLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT(3)\fP set to 4 and \fICURLOPT_TIMEOUT(3)\fP set
to 2, the operation can never last longer than 2 seconds. Including the
connection phase.

This option may cause libcurl to use the SIGALRM signal to timeout system
calls on builds not using asynch DNS. In unix-like systems, this might cause
signals to be used unless \fICURLOPT_NOSIGNAL(3)\fP is set.
.SH DEFAULT
300
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* complete connection within 10 seconds */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT, 10L);

  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK. Returns CURLE_BAD_FUNCTION_ARGUMENT if set to a negative
value or a value that when converted to milliseconds is too large.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT_MS (3),
.BR CURLOPT_LOW_SPEED_LIMIT (3),
.BR CURLOPT_MAX_RECV_SPEED_LARGE (3),
.BR CURLOPT_TIMEOUT (3)
