.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_HTTPTRAILER_DATA 3 "14 Aug 2018" "libcurl 7.??.?" "curl_easy_setopt options"

.SH NAME:
CURLOPT_HTTPTRAILER_DATA \- Set user data to be passed on to the trailing headers callback 
if one set.
		
.SH SYNOPSIS:
#include <curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_HTTPTRAILER_DATA, void *userdata);

.SH DESCRIPTION:
Data pointer to pass to the trailer callback function.

.SH DEFAULT:
NULL

.SH PROTOCOLS:
HTTP

.SH EXAMPLE:
.nf
// Assuming we have a CURL handle in the hndl variable.

struct MyData data;

curl_easy_setopt(hndl, CURLOPT_HTTPTRAILER_LIST, &data);

.fi

A more complete example can be found in examples/http_trailers.html
.SH AVAILABILITY:
???

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_HTTPTRAILER_FUNCTION "(3), "  
