.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_EFFECTIVE_METHOD 3 "28 Aug 2015" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_EFFECTIVE_METHOD \- get the last used HTTP method
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_EFFECTIVE_METHOD,
                           char **methodp);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass in a pointer to a char pointer and get the last used effective HTTP
method.

In cases when you have asked libcurl to follow redirects, the method may not be
the same method the first request would use.

The \fBmethodp\fP pointer is NULL or points to private memory. You MUST NOT
free - it gets freed when you call \fIcurl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP on the
corresponding CURL handle.
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP(S)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  CURLcode res;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_POSTFIELDS, "data");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION, 1L);
  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  if(res == CURLE_OK) {
    char *method = NULL;
    curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_EFFECTIVE_METHOD, &method);
    if(method)
      printf("Redirected to method: %s\\n", method);
  }
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.72.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo "(3), " curl_easy_setopt "(3), "
