.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLCERTTYPE 3 "16 Nov 2016" "libcurl 7.52.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLCERTTYPE \- specify type of the proxy client SSL certificate
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLCERTTYPE, char *type);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a zero terminated string as parameter. The string should be
the format of your client certificate used when connecting to an HTTPS proxy.

Supported formats are "PEM" and "DER", except with Secure Transport. OpenSSL
(versions 0.9.3 and later) and Secure Transport (on iOS 5 or later, or OS X
10.7 or later) also support "P12" for PKCS#12-encoded files.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
"PEM"
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY, "https://proxy");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLCERT, "client.pem");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLCERTTYPE, "PEM");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLKEY, "key.pem");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY_KEYPASSWD, "s3cret");
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.52.0

If built TLS enabled.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if TLS is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLCERT "(3), " CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLKEY "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_SSLCERTTYPE "(3), "
