.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2015, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_RESOLVER_START_DATA 3 "14 Feb 2018" "libcurl 7.59.1" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_RESOLVER_START_DATA \- custom pointer passed to the resolver start callback
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_RESOLVER_START_DATA, void *pointer);
.SH DESCRIPTION
A data \fIpointer\fP to pass to the resolver start callback. If you use the
\fICURLOPT_RESOLVER_START_DATA(3)\fP option, this is the pointer you'll get in that
callback's 2nd argument.

.SH DEFAULT
User data is set to NULL by default
.SH PROTOCOLS
Used for all protocols.
.SH EXAMPLE
A common use case is to use this callback to setup any options on the ares
channel, for example socket callbacks.

.SH AVAILABILITY
Support for the CURLOPT_RESOLVER_START_DATA option was added in version 7.59.1.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This will return CURLE_OK.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_RESOLVER_START_FUNCTION "(3) "
