.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_KEEP_SENDING_ON_ERROR 3 "22 Sep 2016" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_KEEP_SENDING_ON_ERROR \- keep sending on early HTTP response >= 300
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_KEEP_SENDING_ON_ERROR,
                          long keep_sending);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
A long parameter set to 1 tells the library to keep sending the request body
if the HTTP code returned is equal to or larger than 300. The default action
would be to stop sending and close the stream or connection.

This option is suitable for manual NTLM authentication, i.e. if an application
does not use \fICURLOPT_HTTPAUTH(3)\fP, but instead sets "Authorization: NTLM ..."
headers manually using \fICURLOPT_HTTPHEADER(3)\fP.

Most applications do not need this option.
.SH DEFAULT
0, stop sending on error
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode ret;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_POSTFIELDS, "sending data");
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_KEEP_SENDING_ON_ERROR, 1L);
    ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Along with HTTP. Added in 7.51.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if HTTP is enabled, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLINFO_RESPONSE_CODE (3),
.BR CURLOPT_FAILONERROR (3),
.BR CURLOPT_HTTPHEADER (3)
