.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_MAXAGE_CONN 3 "18 Apr 2019" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_MAXAGE_CONN \- max idle time allowed for reusing a connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_MAXAGE_CONN, long age);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as parameter containing \fIage\fP - the maximum time in seconds
allowed for an existing connection to have been idle to be considered for
reuse for this request.

The "connection cache" holds previously used connections. When a new request
is to be done, libcurl considers any connection that matches for reuse. The
\fICURLOPT_MAXAGE_CONN(3)\fP limit prevents libcurl from trying too old
connections for reuse, since old connections have a higher risk of not working
and thus trying them is a performance loss and sometimes service loss due to
the difficulties to figure out the situation. If a connection is found in the
cache that is older than this set \fIage\fP, it is closed instead.
.SH DEFAULT
Default maximum age is set to 118 seconds.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* only allow 30 seconds idle time */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_MAXAGE_CONN, 30L);

  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.65.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_FORBID_REUSE (3),
.BR CURLOPT_FRESH_CONNECT (3),
.BR CURLOPT_MAXLIFETIME_CONN (3),
.BR CURLOPT_TIMEOUT (3)
