.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_PROXYUSERNAME 3 "19 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_PROXYUSERNAME \- user name to use for proxy authentication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_PROXYUSERNAME,
                          char *username);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * as parameter, which should be pointing to the null-terminated
user name to use for the transfer.

\fICURLOPT_PROXYUSERNAME(3)\fP sets the user name to be used in protocol
authentication with the proxy.

To specify the proxy password use the \fICURLOPT_PROXYPASSWORD(3)\fP.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
blank
.SH PROTOCOLS
Most
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/foo.bin");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY, "http://localhost:8080");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXYUSERNAME, "mrsmith");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXYPASSWORD, "qwerty");
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.19.1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_PROXYPASSWORD "(3), " CURLOPT_USERNAME "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_HTTPAUTH "(3), " CURLOPT_PROXYAUTH "(3)"
