.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_CONTENT_TYPE 3 "1 Sep 2015" "libcurl" "libcurl"
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_CONTENT_TYPE \- get Content-Type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_CONTENT_TYPE, char **ct);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a char pointer to receive the content-type of the downloaded
object. This is the value read from the Content-Type: field. If you get NULL,
it means that the server did not send a valid Content-Type header or that the
protocol used does not support this.

The \fBct\fP pointer is set to NULL or pointing to private memory. You MUST
NOT free it - it gets freed when you call \fIcurl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP on the
corresponding CURL handle.

The modern way to get this header from a response is to instead use the
\fIcurl_easy_header(3)\fP function.
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP(S)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode res;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

    res = curl_easy_perform(curl);

    if(!res) {
      /* extract the content-type */
      char *ct = NULL;
      res = curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_CONTENT_TYPE, &ct);
      if(!res && ct) {
        printf("Content-Type: %s\\n", ct);
      }
    }
    curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.9.4
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo (3),
.BR curl_easy_header (3),
.BR curl_easy_setopt (3),
.BR CURLOPT_HEADERFUNCTION (3)
