.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_HAPPY_EYEBALLS_TIMEOUT 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_HAPPY_EYEBALLS_TIMEOUT \- set head start given to ipv6 sockets
when doing happy eyeballs.
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_HAPPY_EYEBALLS_TIMEOUT, long timeout);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as parameter containing \fItimeout\fP - the time libcurl
will wait until it starts connecting the first ip4 socket when doing
happy eyeballs.
.SH DEFAULT
Default timeout is 200 (ms).
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "http://example.com");

  /* give ipv6 half a second head start */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_HAPPY_EYEBALLS_TIMEOUT, 500);

  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.58.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK. Returns CURLE_BAD_FUNCTION_ARGUMENT if set to a negative
value.
