.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 2016, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_KRB5_CCNAME 3 "27 June 2016" "libcurl 7.50.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_KRB5_CCNAME \- set Kerberos credential cache to use in GSS-API
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_KRB5_CCNAME, char *ccache);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a NULL terminated string as parameter. The string represents
the Kerberos V5 credential cache to use instead of the default credential cache
(file path or other types of cache, similar to KRB5CCNAME environment variable).

.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
All protocols using Kerberos V5 mechanism in GSS-API: HTTP, FTP, etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
kinit -c /tmp/uid_cc user@REALM
klist -c /tmp/uid_cc

CURL *hnd = curl_easy_init();
curl_easy_setopt(hnd, CURLOPT_URL, "http://host/path/");
curl_easy_setopt(hnd, CURLOPT_USERPWD, ":");
curl_easy_setopt(hnd, CURLOPT_HTTPAUTH, CURLAUTH_NEGOTIATE);
curl_easy_setopt(hnd, CURLOPT_KRB5_CCNAME, "/tmp/uid_cc");
curl_easy_perform(hnd);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
If built with MIT Kerberos library which support credential-store extension.
Added in 7.50.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if available, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_KRB5_CLIENT_KTNAME "(3), "
