.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLMOPT_VERBOSE 3 "17 Oct 2023" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLMOPT_VERBOSE \- verbose mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_multi_setopt(CURLM *handle, CURLMOPT_VERBOSE, long onoff);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Set the \fIonoff\fP parameter to 1 to make the library display a lot of
verbose information about its operations on \fIhandle\fPs added to
this multi.

\fICURLMOPT_VERBOSE(3)\fP can be used as default for all easy handles
that are added to the multi. They are also used for internal handles,
for examples when closing cached connections.
This option takes effect and is used only for the easy handles that are
added to the multi handle after this option is set for the multi handle.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
  curl_multi_setopt(multi, CURLMOPT_VERBOSE, 1L);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This option was added in libcurl 8.5.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_VERBOSE (3),
.BR CURLMOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION (3),
.BR CURLMOPT_DEBUGDATA (3)
