.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_LOCALPORT 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_LOCALPORT \- set local port number to use for socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_LOCALPORT, long port);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. This sets the local port number of the socket used for the
connection. This can be used in combination with \fICURLOPT_INTERFACE(3)\fP
and you are recommended to use \fICURLOPT_LOCALPORTRANGE(3)\fP as well when
this option is set. Valid port numbers are 1 - 65535.
.SH DEFAULT
0, disabled - use whatever the system thinks is fine
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "http://example.com/foo.bin");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_LOCALPORT, 8080L);
  /* and try 20 more ports following that */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_LOCALPORTRANGE, 20L);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.15.2
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_LOCALPORTRANGE "(3), " CURLOPT_INTERFACE "(3), "
