.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_DOH_SSL_VERIFYSTATUS 3 "11 Feb 2021" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_DOH_SSL_VERIFYSTATUS \- verify the DoH SSL certificate's status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_DOH_SSL_VERIFYSTATUS,
                          long verify);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as parameter set to 1 to enable or 0 to disable.

This option determines whether libcurl verifies the status of the DoH
(DNS-over-HTTPS) server cert using the "Certificate Status Request" TLS
extension (aka. OCSP stapling).

This option is the DoH equivalent of \fICURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYSTATUS(3)\fP and
only affects requests to the DoH server.

If this option is enabled and the server does not support the TLS extension,
the verification fails.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
DoH
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_DOH_URL, "https://cloudflare-dns.com/dns-query");

  /* Ask for OCSP stapling when verifying the DoH server */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_DOH_SSL_VERIFYSTATUS, 1L);

  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.76.0. This option is currently only supported by the OpenSSL, and
GnuTLS TLS backends.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if OCSP stapling is supported by the SSL backend, otherwise
returns CURLE_NOT_BUILT_IN.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_DOH_SSL_VERIFYHOST (3),
.BR CURLOPT_DOH_SSL_VERIFYPEER (3),
.BR CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYSTATUS (3)
