.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_RTSP_STREAM_URI 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_RTSP_STREAM_URI \- set RTSP stream URI
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_RTSP_STREAM_URI, char *URI);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Set the stream \fIURI\fP to operate on by passing a char * . For example, a
single session may be controlling \fIrtsp://foo/twister/audio\fP and
\fIrtsp://foo/twister/video\fP and the application can switch to the
appropriate stream using this option. If unset, libcurl will default to
operating on generic server options by passing '*' in the place of the RTSP
Stream URI. This option is distinct from \fICURLOPT_URL(3)\fP. When working
with RTSP, the \fICURLOPT_RTSP_STREAM_URI(3)\fP indicates what URL to send to
the server in the request header while the \fICURLOPT_URL(3)\fP indicates
where to make the connection to.  (e.g. the \fICURLOPT_URL(3)\fP for the above
examples might be set to \fIrtsp://foo/twister\fP

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
'*'
.SH PROTOCOLS
RTSP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  char *prev_id; /* saved from before somehow */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "rtsp://example.com/");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_RTSP_STREAM_URI,
                   "rtsp://foo.example.com/twister/video");
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.20.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_RTSP_REQUEST "(3), " CURLOPT_RTSP_TRANSPORT "(3), "
