.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPALIVE 3 "19 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPALIVE \- TCP keep-alive probing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPALIVE, long probe);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. If set to 1, TCP keepalive probes are used. The delay and
frequency of these probes can be controlled by the
\fICURLOPT_TCP_KEEPIDLE(3)\fP and \fICURLOPT_TCP_KEEPINTVL(3)\fP options,
provided the operating system supports them. Set to 0 (default behavior) to
disable keepalive probes
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

    /* enable TCP keep-alive for this transfer */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPALIVE, 1L);

    /* keep-alive idle time to 120 seconds */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPIDLE, 120L);

    /* interval time between keep-alive probes: 60 seconds */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPINTVL, 60L);

    curl_easy_perform(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.25.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPIDLE (3),
.BR CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPINTVL (3),
.BR CURLOPT_LOW_SPEED_LIMIT (3),
.BR CURLOPT_MAX_RECV_SPEED_LARGE (3)
