.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_PRETRANSFER_TIME 3 "28 Aug 2015" "libcurl 7.44.0" "curl_easy_getinfo options"
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_PRETRANSFER_TIME \- get the time until the file transfer start
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_PRETRANSFER_TIME,
                           double *timep);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a double to receive the time, in seconds, it took from the
start until the file transfer is just about to begin.

This time-stamp includes all pre-transfer commands and negotiations that are
specific to the particular protocol(s) involved. It includes the sending of
the protocol- specific protocol instructions that triggers a transfer.

When a redirect is followed, the time from each request is added together.

See also the TIMES overview in the \fIcurl_easy_getinfo(3)\fP man page.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  double pretransfer;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, url);
  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  if(CURLE_OK == res) {
    res = curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_PRETRANSFER_TIME, &pretransfer);
    if(CURLE_OK == res) {
      printf("Time: %.1f", pretransfer);
    }
  }
  /* always cleanup */
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.4.1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo "(3), " curl_easy_setopt "(3), " CURLINFO_PRETRANSFER_TIME_T "(3)"
