.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_NOBODY 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_NOBODY \- do the download request without getting the body
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_NOBODY, long opt);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
A long parameter set to 1 tells libcurl to not include the body-part in the
output when doing what would otherwise be a download. For HTTP(S), this makes
libcurl do a HEAD request. For most other protocols it means just not asking
to transfer the body data.

For HTTP operations when \fICURLOPT_NOBODY(3)\fP has been set, disabling this
option (with 0) will make it a GET again - only if the method is still set to
be HEAD. The proper way to get back to a GET request is to set
\fICURLOPT_HTTPGET(3)\fP and for other methods, use the POST or UPLOAD
options.

Enabling \fICURLOPT_NOBODY(3)\fP means asking for a download without a body.

If you do a transfer with HTTP that involves a method other than HEAD, you
will get a body (unless the resource and server sends a zero byte body for the
specific URL you request).
.SH DEFAULT
0, the body is transferred
.SH PROTOCOLS
Most
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* get us the resource without a body - use HEAD! */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_NOBODY, 1L);

  /* Perform the request */
  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_HTTPGET "(3), " CURLOPT_POSTFIELDS "(3), " CURLOPT_UPLOAD "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_REQUEST_TARGET "(3), " CURLOPT_MIMEPOST "(3), "
