.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_RTSP_SERVER_CSEQ 3 "1 Sep 2015" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_RTSP_SERVER_CSEQ \- get the next RTSP server CSeq
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_RTSP_SERVER_CSEQ,
                           long *cseq);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a long to receive the next CSeq that is expected to be used
by the application.

Listening for server initiated requests is not implemented!

Applications wishing to resume an RTSP session on another connection should
retrieve this info before closing the active connection.
.SH PROTOCOLS
RTSP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  CURLcode res;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "rtsp://rtsp.example.com");
  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  if(res == CURLE_OK) {
    long cseq;
    curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_RTSP_SERVER_CSEQ, &cseq);
  }
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.20.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo "(3), " curl_easy_setopt "(3), "
