.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_VERBOSE 3 "16 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_VERBOSE \- verbose mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_VERBOSE, long onoff);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Set the \fIonoff\fP parameter to 1 to make the library display a lot of
verbose information about its operations on this \fIhandle\fP. Useful for
libcurl and/or protocol debugging and understanding. The verbose information
is sent to stderr, or the stream set with \fICURLOPT_STDERR(3)\fP.

You hardly ever want this enabled in production use, you almost always want
this used when you debug/report problems.

To also get all the protocol data sent and received, consider using the
\fICURLOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION(3)\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
0, meaning disabled.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* ask libcurl to show us the verbose output */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_VERBOSE, 1L);

  /* Perform the request */
  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_STDERR "(3), " CURLOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_ERRORBUFFER "(3), "
.BR curl_global_trace "(3), "
