.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_HSTSREADDATA 3 "14 Sep 2020" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_HSTSREADDATA \- pointer passed to the HSTS read callback
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_HSTSREADDATA, void *pointer);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Data \fIpointer\fP to pass to the HSTS read function. If you use the
\fICURLOPT_HSTSREADFUNCTION(3)\fP option, this is the pointer you get as input
in the 3rd argument to the callback.

This option does not enable HSTS, you need to use \fICURLOPT_HSTS_CTRL(3)\fP to
do that.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
This feature is only used for HTTP(S) transfer.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
struct MyData {
  void *custom;
};

int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  struct MyData this;
  if(curl) {
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "http://example.com");

    /* pass pointer that gets passed in to the
       CURLOPT_HSTSREADFUNCTION callback */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_HSTSREADDATA, &this);

    curl_easy_perform(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.74.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
This returns CURLE_OK.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_HSTS (3),
.BR CURLOPT_HSTSREADFUNCTION (3),
.BR CURLOPT_HSTSWRITEDATA (3),
.BR CURLOPT_HSTSWRITEFUNCTION (3)
