.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_SSH_HOST_PUBLIC_KEY_SHA256 3 "27 Aug 2021" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_SSH_HOST_PUBLIC_KEY_SHA256 \- SHA256 hash of SSH server public key
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_SSH_HOST_PUBLIC_KEY_SHA256,
                          char *sha256);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * pointing to a string containing a Base64-encoded SHA256 hash of
the remote host's public key.  The transfer fails if the given hash does not
match the hash the remote host provides.

.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
SCP and SFTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "sftp://example.com/file");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SSH_HOST_PUBLIC_KEY_SHA256,
                   "NDVkMTQxMGQ1ODdmMjQ3MjczYjAyOTY5MmRkMjVmNDQ=");
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.80.0
Requires the libssh2 backend.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_SSH_PUBLIC_KEYFILE "(3), " CURLOPT_SSH_AUTH_TYPES "(3), "
