.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_NOPROGRESS 3 "16 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_NOPROGRESS \- switch off the progress meter
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_NOPROGRESS, long onoff);
.SH DESCRIPTION
If \fIonoff\fP is to 1, it tells the library to shut off the progress meter
completely for requests done with this \fIhandle\fP. It will also prevent the
\fICURLOPT_XFERINFOFUNCTION(3)\fP or \fICURLOPT_PROGRESSFUNCTION(3)\fP from
getting called.
.SH DEFAULT
1, meaning it normally runs without a progress meter.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "http://example.com");

  /* enable progress meter */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_NOPROGRESS, 0L);

  /* Perform the request */
  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_XFERINFOFUNCTION "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_PROGRESSFUNCTION "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_VERBOSE "(3), "
