.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_CERTINFO 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_CERTINFO \- request SSL certificate information
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_CERTINFO, long certinfo);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long set to 1 to enable libcurl's certificate chain info gatherer. With
this enabled, libcurl will extract lots of information and data about the
certificates in the certificate chain used in the SSL connection. This data
may then be retrieved after a transfer using \fIcurl_easy_getinfo(3)\fP and
its option \fICURLINFO_CERTINFO(3)\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS-based
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://www.example.com/");

  /* connect to any HTTPS site, trusted or not */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER, 0L);
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYHOST, 0L);

  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_CERTINFO, 1L);

  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);

  if (!res) {
    struct curl_certinfo *ci;
    res = curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_CERTINFO, &ci);

    if (!res) {
      printf("%d certs!\\n", ci->num_of_certs);

      for(i = 0; i < ci->num_of_certs; i++) {
        struct curl_slist *slist;

        for(slist = ci->certinfo[i]; slist; slist = slist->next)
          printf("%s\\n", slist->data);
      }
    }
  }
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This option is supported by the OpenSSL, GnuTLS, NSS and GSKit backends.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_CAINFO "(3), " CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER "(3), "
