.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_MAXLIFETIME_CONN 3 "10 Nov 2021" "libcurl 7.80.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_MAXLIFETIME_CONN \- max lifetime (since creation) allowed for reusing a connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_MAXLIFETIME_CONN,
                          long maxlifetime);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as parameter containing \fImaxlifetime\fP - the maximum time in
seconds, since the creation of the connection, that you allow an existing
connection to have to be considered for reuse for this request.

libcurl features a connection cache that holds previously used connections.
When a new request is to be done, it will consider any connection that matches
for reuse. The \fICURLOPT_MAXLIFETIME_CONN(3)\fP limit prevents libcurl from
trying too old connections for reuse. This can be used for client-side load
balancing. If a connection is found in the cache that is older than this set
\fImaxlifetime\fP, it will instead be closed once any in-progress transfers
complete.

If set to 0, this behavior is disabled: all connections are eligible for reuse.
.SH DEFAULT
Default \fImaxlifetime\fP is 0 seconds (i.e., disabled).
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* only allow each connection to be reused for 30 seconds */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_MAXLIFETIME_CONN, 30L);

  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.80.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_TIMEOUT "(3), " CURLOPT_FORBID_REUSE "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_FRESH_CONNECT "(3), " CURLOPT_MAXAGE_CONN "(3), "
