.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_SIZE_DOWNLOAD_T 3 "25 May 2017" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_SIZE_DOWNLOAD_T \- get the number of downloaded bytes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_SIZE_DOWNLOAD_T,
                           curl_off_t *dlp);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a \fIcurl_off_t\fP to receive the total amount of bytes that
were downloaded. The amount is only for the latest transfer and gets reset
again for each new transfer. This counts actual payload data, what's also
commonly called body. All meta and header data is excluded from this amount.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* Perform the request */
  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);

  if(!res) {
    /* check the size */
    curl_off_t dl;
    res = curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_SIZE_DOWNLOAD_T, &dl);
    if(!res) {
      printf("Downloaded %" CURL_FORMAT_CURL_OFF_T " bytes\\n", dl);
    }
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.55.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo (3),
.BR curl_easy_setopt (3),
.BR CURLINFO_SIZE_DOWNLOAD (3),
.BR CURLINFO_SIZE_UPLOAD_T (3),
.BR CURLOPT_MAXFILESIZE (3)
