.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2022, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH CURLSHOPT_SSL_SESSIONID_CACHE_SIZE.3 3 "03 Feb 2022" "libcurl 7.83.0" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
CURLSHOPT_SSL_SESSIONID_CACHE_SIZE - set the size of the SSL session-ID cache
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLSHcode curl_share_setopt(CURLSH *share, CURLSHOPT_SSL_SESSIONID_CACHE_SIZE,
                             long size);

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Set the size of the SSL session-ID cache. The size can only be set before the
SSL session-ID cache of a share handle is enabled by calling
curl_share_setopt(share, CURLSHOPT_SHARE, CURL_LOCK_DATA_SSL_SESSION).
.SH DEFAULT
8
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
  CURLSHcode sh;
  struct secrets private_stuff;
  share = curl_share_init();
  sh = curl_share_setopt(share, CURLSHOPT_SSL_SESSIONID_CACHE_SIZE, 100);
  if(sh)
    printf("Error: %s\\n", curl_share_strerror(sh));
  sh = curl_share_setopt(share, CURLSHOPT_SHARE, CURL_LOCK_DATA_SSL_SESSION);
  if(sh)
    printf("Error: %s\\n", curl_share_strerror(sh));
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.82.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
CURLSHE_OK (zero) means that the option was set properly, non-zero means an
error occurred. See \fIlibcurl-errors(3)\fP for the full list with
descriptions.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLSHOPT_LOCKFUNC "(3), "
.BR curl_share_setopt "(3), " CURLOPT_SSL_SESSIONID_CACHE "(3), "
