.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLMOPT_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS 3 "06 Nov 2019" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLMOPT_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS \- max concurrent streams for http2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLMcode curl_multi_setopt(CURLM *handle, CURLMOPT_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS,
                            long max);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long indicating the \fBmax\fP. The set number is used as the maximum
number of concurrent streams for a connections that libcurl should support on
connections done using HTTP/2.

Valid values range from 1 to 2147483647 (2^31 - 1) and defaults to 100.  The
value passed here would be honored based on other system resources properties.
.SH DEFAULT
100
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
  CURLM *m = curl_multi_init();
  /* max concurrent streams 200 */
  curl_multi_setopt(m, CURLMOPT_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS, 200L);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.67.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLM_OK if the option is supported, and CURLM_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLMOPT_MAXCONNECTS (3),
.BR CURLOPT_MAXCONNECTS (3)
