.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_MIMEPOST 3 "22 Aug 2017" "libcurl 7.56.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_MIMEPOST \- send data from mime structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

curl_mime *mime;

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_MIMEPOST, mime);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a mime handle previously obtained from \fIcurl_mime_init(3)\fP.

This setting is supported by the HTTP protocol to post forms and by the
SMTP and IMAP protocols to provide the email data to send/upload.

This option is the preferred way of posting an HTTP form, replacing and
extending the \fICURLOPT_HTTPPOST(3)\fP option.
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP, SMTP, IMAP.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
 curl_mime *multipart = curl_mime_init(handle);
 curl_mimepart *part = curl_mime_addpart(multipart);
 curl_mime_name(part, "name");
 curl_mime_data(part, "daniel", CURL_ZERO_TERMINATED);
 part = curl_mime_addpart(multipart);
 curl_mime_name(part, "project");
 curl_mime_data(part, "curl", CURL_ZERO_TERMINATED);
 part = curl_mime_addpart(multipart);
 curl_mime_name(part, "logotype-image");
 curl_mime_filedata(part, "curl.png");

 /* Set the form info */
 curl_easy_setopt(handle, CURLOPT_MIMEPOST, multipart);

 curl_easy_perform(handle); /* post away! */

 curl_mime_free(multipart); /* free the post data */
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.56.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
This will return CURLE_OK.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_mime_init "(3)"
