.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_WS_OPTIONS 3 "10 Jun 2022" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_WS_OPTIONS \- WebSocket behavior options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_WS_OPTIONS, long bitmask);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long with a bitmask to tell libcurl about specific WebSocket
behaviors.

To detach a WebSocket connection and use the \fIcurl_ws_send(3)\fP and
\fIcurl_ws_recv(3)\fP functions after the HTTP upgrade procedure, set the
\fICURLOPT_CONNECT_ONLY(3)\fP option to 2L.

Available bits in the bitmask
.IP "CURLWS_RAW_MODE (1)"
Deliver "raw" WebSocket traffic to the \fICURLOPT_WRITEFUNCTION(3)\fP
callback.

In raw mode, libcurl does not handle pings or any other frame for the
application.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
WebSocket
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "ws://example.com/");
  /* tell curl we deal with all the WebSocket magic ourselves */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_WS_OPTIONS, (long)CURLWS_RAW_MODE);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.86.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_ws_recv "(3), " curl_ws_send "(3), "
