.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_HEADERFUNCTION 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_HEADERFUNCTION \- callback that receives header data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

size_t header_callback(char *buffer,
                       size_t size,
                       size_t nitems,
                       void *userdata);

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_HEADERFUNCTION,
                          header_callback);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to your callback function, which should match the prototype
shown above.

This callback function gets invoked by libcurl as soon as it has received
header data. The header callback is called once for each header and only
complete header lines are passed on to the callback. Parsing headers is easy
to do using this callback. \fIbuffer\fP points to the delivered data, and the
size of that data is \fInitems\fP; \fIsize\fP is always 1. The provide header
line is not null-terminated!

The pointer named \fIuserdata\fP is the one you set with the
\fICURLOPT_HEADERDATA(3)\fP option.

Your callback should return the number of bytes actually taken care of. If
that amount differs from the amount passed to your callback function, it
signals an error condition to the library. This causes the transfer to get
aborted and the libcurl function used returns \fICURLE_WRITE_ERROR\fP.

You can also abort the transfer by returning CURL_WRITEFUNC_ERROR. (7.87.0)

A complete HTTP header that is passed to this function can be up to
\fICURL_MAX_HTTP_HEADER\fP (100K) bytes and includes the final line terminator.

If this option is not set, or if it is set to NULL, but
\fICURLOPT_HEADERDATA(3)\fP is set to anything but NULL, the function used to
accept response data is used instead. That is the function specified with
\fICURLOPT_WRITEFUNCTION(3)\fP, or if it is not specified or NULL - the
default, stream-writing function.

It's important to note that the callback is invoked for the headers of all
responses received after initiating a request and not just the final
response. This includes all responses which occur during authentication
negotiation. If you need to operate on only the headers from the final
response, you need to collect headers in the callback yourself and use HTTP
status lines, for example, to delimit response boundaries.

For an HTTP transfer, the status line and the blank line preceding the response
body are both included as headers and passed to this function.

When a server sends a chunked encoded transfer, it may contain a trailer. That
trailer is identical to an HTTP header and if such a trailer is received it is
passed to the application using this callback as well. There are several ways
to detect it being a trailer and not an ordinary header: 1) it comes after the
response-body. 2) it comes after the final header line (CR LF) 3) a Trailer:
header among the regular response-headers mention what header(s) to expect in
the trailer.

For non-HTTP protocols like FTP, POP3, IMAP and SMTP this function gets called
with the server responses to the commands that libcurl sends.

A more convenient way to get HTTP headers might be to use
\fIcurl_easy_header(3)\fP.
.SH LIMITATIONS
libcurl does not unfold HTTP "folded headers" (deprecated since RFC 7230). A
folded header is a header that continues on a subsequent line and starts with
a whitespace. Such folds are passed to the header callback as separate ones,
although strictly they are just continuations of the previous lines.
.SH DEFAULT
Nothing.
.SH PROTOCOLS
Used for all protocols with headers or meta-data concept: HTTP, FTP, POP3,
IMAP, SMTP and more.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
static size_t header_callback(char *buffer, size_t size,
                              size_t nitems, void *userdata)
{
  /* received header is nitems * size long in 'buffer' NOT ZERO TERMINATED */
  /* 'userdata' is set with CURLOPT_HEADERDATA */
  return nitems * size;
}

int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_HEADERFUNCTION, header_callback);

    curl_easy_perform(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_header (3),
.BR CURLOPT_HEADERDATA (3),
.BR CURLOPT_WRITEFUNCTION (3)
