.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_INTERFACE 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_INTERFACE \- source interface for outgoing traffic
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_INTERFACE, char *interface);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * as parameter. This sets the \fIinterface\fP name to use as
outgoing network interface. The name can be an interface name, an IP address,
or a host name.

If the parameter starts with "if!" then it is treated only as an interface
name. If the parameter starts with \&"host!" it is treated as either an IP
address or a hostname.

If "if!" is specified but the parameter does not match an existing interface,
\fICURLE_INTERFACE_FAILED\fP is returned from the libcurl function used to
perform the transfer.

libcurl does not support using network interface names for this option on
Windows.

We strongly advise against specifying the interface with a hostname, as it
causes libcurl to do a blocking name resolve call to retrieve the IP
address. That name resolve operation does \fBnot\fP use DNS-over-HTTPS even if
\fICURLOPT_DOH_URL(3)\fP is set.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL, use whatever the TCP stack finds suitable
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode res;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/foo.bin");

    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_INTERFACE, "eth0");

    res = curl_easy_perform(curl);

    curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
The "if!" and "host!" syntax was added in 7.24.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK on success or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_SOCKOPTFUNCTION (3),
.BR CURLOPT_TCP_NODELAY (3)
