.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_SOCKOPTFUNCTION 3 "16 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_SOCKOPTFUNCTION \- callback for setting socket options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

typedef enum  {
  CURLSOCKTYPE_IPCXN,  /* socket created for a specific IP connection */
  CURLSOCKTYPE_ACCEPT, /* socket created by accept() call */
  CURLSOCKTYPE_LAST    /* never use */
} curlsocktype;

#define CURL_SOCKOPT_OK 0
#define CURL_SOCKOPT_ERROR 1 /* causes libcurl to abort and return
                                CURLE_ABORTED_BY_CALLBACK */
#define CURL_SOCKOPT_ALREADY_CONNECTED 2

int sockopt_callback(void *clientp,
                     curl_socket_t curlfd,
                     curlsocktype purpose);

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_SOCKOPTFUNCTION, sockopt_callback);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to your callback function, which should match the prototype
shown above.

When set, this callback function gets called by libcurl when the socket has
been created, but before the connect call to allow applications to change
specific socket options. The callback's \fIpurpose\fP argument identifies the
exact purpose for this particular socket:

\fICURLSOCKTYPE_IPCXN\fP for actively created connections or since 7.28.0
\fICURLSOCKTYPE_ACCEPT\fP for FTP when the connection was setup with PORT/EPSV
(in earlier versions these sockets were not passed to this callback).

Future versions of libcurl may support more purposes. libcurl passes the newly
created socket descriptor to the callback in the \fIcurlfd\fP parameter so
additional setsockopt() calls can be done at the user's discretion.

The \fIclientp\fP pointer contains whatever user-defined value set using the
\fICURLOPT_SOCKOPTDATA(3)\fP function.

Return \fICURL_SOCKOPT_OK\fP from the callback on success. Return
\fICURL_SOCKOPT_ERROR\fP from the callback function to signal an unrecoverable
error to the library and it closes the socket and returns
\fICURLE_COULDNT_CONNECT\fP. Alternatively, the callback function can return
\fICURL_SOCKOPT_ALREADY_CONNECTED\fP, to tell libcurl that the socket is
already connected and then libcurl does no attempt to connect. This allows an
application to pass in an already connected socket with
\fICURLOPT_OPENSOCKETFUNCTION(3)\fP and then have this function make libcurl
not attempt to connect (again).
.SH DEFAULT
By default, this callback is NULL and unused.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* make libcurl use the already established socket 'sockfd' */

static curl_socket_t opensocket(void *clientp,
                                curlsocktype purpose,
                                struct curl_sockaddr *address)
{
  curl_socket_t sockfd;
  sockfd = *(curl_socket_t *)clientp;
  /* the actual externally set socket is passed in via the OPENSOCKETDATA
     option */
  return sockfd;
}

static int sockopt_callback(void *clientp, curl_socket_t curlfd,
                            curlsocktype purpose)
{
  /* This return code was added in libcurl 7.21.5 */
  return CURL_SOCKOPT_ALREADY_CONNECTED;
}

curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  /* libcurl thinks that you connect to the host
   * and port that you specify in the URL option. */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "http://99.99.99.99:9999");
  /* call this function to get a socket */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_OPENSOCKETFUNCTION, opensocket);
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_OPENSOCKETDATA, &sockfd);

  /* call this function to set options for the socket */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SOCKOPTFUNCTION, sockopt_callback);

  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);

  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.16.0. The \fICURL_SOCKOPT_ALREADY_CONNECTED\fP return code was
added in 7.21.5.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_SOCKOPTDATA "(3), " CURLOPT_OPENSOCKETFUNCTION "(3), "
