.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_NEW_DIRECTORY_PERMS 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_NEW_DIRECTORY_PERMS \- permissions for remotely created directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_NEW_DIRECTORY_PERMS,
                          long mode);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as a parameter, containing the value of the permissions that will
be assigned to newly created directories on the remote server.  The default value is
\fI0755\fP, but any valid value can be used.  The only protocols that can use
this are \fIsftp://\fP, \fIscp://\fP, and \fIfile://\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
0755
.SH PROTOCOLS
SFTP, SCP and FILE
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  CURLcode ret;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "sftp://upload.example.com/newdir/file.zip");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_FTP_CREATE_MISSING_DIRS, 1L);
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_NEW_DIRECTORY_PERMS, 0644L);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.16.4
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_NEW_FILE_PERMS "(3), " CURLOPT_UPLOAD "(3), "
