.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_HEADER_SIZE 3 "1 Sep 2015" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_HEADER_SIZE \- get size of retrieved headers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_HEADER_SIZE, long *sizep);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a long to receive the total size of all the headers
received. Measured in number of bytes.

The total includes the size of any received headers suppressed by
\fICURLOPT_SUPPRESS_CONNECT_HEADERS(3)\fP.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode res;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
    res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
    if(res == CURLE_OK) {
      long size;
      res = curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_HEADER_SIZE, &size);
      if(!res)
        printf("Header size: %ld bytes\\n", size);
    }
    curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.4.1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo (3),
.BR curl_easy_setopt (3),
.BR CURLINFO_REQUEST_SIZE (3),
.BR CURLINFO_SIZE_DOWNLOAD (3)
