.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_QUOTE 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_QUOTE \- (S)FTP commands to run before transfer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_QUOTE,
                          struct curl_slist *cmds);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a linked list of FTP or SFTP commands to pass to the server
prior to your request. This will be done before any other commands are issued
(even before the CWD command for FTP). The linked list should be a fully valid
list of 'struct curl_slist' structs properly filled in with text strings. Use
\fIcurl_slist_append(3)\fP to append strings (commands) to the list, and clear
the entire list afterwards with \fIcurl_slist_free_all(3)\fP.

Disable this operation again by setting a NULL to this option.

When speaking to an FTP server, prefix the command with an asterisk (*) to
make libcurl continue even if the command fails as by default libcurl will
stop at first failure.

The set of valid FTP commands depends on the server (see RFC959 for a list of
mandatory commands).

libcurl does not inspect, parse or "understand" the commands passed to the
server using this option. If you change connection state, working directory or
similar using quote commands, libcurl will not know about it.

The valid SFTP commands are:
.RS
.IP "atime date file"
The atime command sets the last access time of the file named by the file
operand. The <date expression> can be all sorts of date strings, see the
\fIcurl_getdate(3)\fP man page for date expression details. (Added in 7.73.0)
.IP "chgrp group file"
The chgrp command sets the group ID of the file named by the file operand to
the group ID specified by the group operand. The group operand is a decimal
integer group ID.
.IP "chmod mode file"
The chmod command modifies the file mode bits of the specified file. The
mode operand is an octal integer mode number.
.IP "chown user file"
The chown command sets the owner of the file named by the file operand to the
user ID specified by the user operand. The user operand is a decimal
integer user ID.
.IP "ln source_file target_file"
The \fBln\fP and \fBsymlink\fP commands create a symbolic link at the
target_file location pointing to the source_file location.
.IP "mkdir directory_name"
The mkdir command creates the directory named by the directory_name operand.
.IP "mtime date file"
The mtime command sets the last modification time of the file named by the
file operand. The <date expression> can be all sorts of date strings, see the
\fIcurl_getdate(3)\fP man page for date expression details. (Added in 7.73.0)
.IP "pwd"
The \fBpwd\fP command returns the absolute path of the current working
directory.
.IP "rename source target"
The rename command renames the file or directory named by the source
operand to the destination path named by the target operand.
.IP "rm file"
The rm command removes the file specified by the file operand.
.IP "rmdir directory"
The rmdir command removes the directory entry specified by the directory
operand, provided it is empty.
.IP "statvfs file"
The statvfs command returns statistics on the file system in which specified
file resides. (Added in 7.49.0)
.IP "symlink source_file target_file"
See ln.
.RE
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
SFTP and FTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
struct curl_slist *cmdlist = NULL;
cmdlist = curl_slist_append(cmdlist, "RNFR source-name");
cmdlist = curl_slist_append(cmdlist, "RNTO new-name");

curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com/foo.bin");

  /* pass in the FTP commands to run before the transfer */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_QUOTE, cmdlist);

  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);

  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
SFTP support added in 7.16.3. *-prefix for SFTP added in 7.24.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_POSTQUOTE "(3), " CURLOPT_PREQUOTE "(3), "
