.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_PORT 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_PORT \- remote port number to connect to
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_PORT, long number);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
We discourage using this option since its scope is not obvious and hard to
predict. Set the preferred port number in the URL instead.

This option sets \fInumber\fP to be the remote port number to connect to,
instead of the one specified in the URL or the default port for the used
protocol.

Usually, you just let the URL decide which port to use but this allows the
application to override that.

While this option accepts a 'long', a port number is an unsigned 16 bit number
and therefore using a port number lower than zero or over 65535 causes a
\fBCURLE_BAD_FUNCTION_ARGUMENT\fP error.
.SH DEFAULT
By default this is 0 which makes it not used. This also makes port number zero
impossible to set with this API.
.SH PROTOCOLS
Used for all protocols that speak to a port number.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode res;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/foo.bin");
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PORT, 8080L);
    res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
    curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLINFO_PRIMARY_PORT (3),
.BR CURLOPT_STDERR (3),
.BR CURLOPT_URL (3)
