.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2022, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_NOPROXY 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_NOPROXY \- disable proxy use for specific hosts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_NOPROXY, char *noproxy);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a null-terminated string. The string consists of a comma
separated list of host names that do not require a proxy to get reached, even
if one is specified.  The only wildcard available is a single * character,
which matches all hosts, and effectively disables the proxy. Each name in this
list is matched as either a domain which contains the hostname, or the
hostname itself. For example, example.com would match example.com,
example.com:80, and www.example.com, but not www.notanexample.com or
example.com.othertld.

If the name in the noproxy list has a leading period, it is a domain match
against the provided host name. This way ".example.com" will switch off proxy
use for both "www.example.com" as well as for "foo.example.com".

Setting the noproxy string to "" (an empty string) will explicitly enable the
proxy for all host names, even if there is an environment variable set for it.

Enter IPv6 numerical addresses in the list of host names without enclosing
brackets:

 "example.com,::1,localhost"

IPv6 numerical addresses are compared as strings, so they will only match if
the representations are the same: "::1" is the same as "::0:1" but they do not
match.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH "Environment variables"
If there's an environment variable called \fBno_proxy\fP (or \fBNO_PROXY\fP),
it will be used if the \fICURLOPT_NOPROXY(3)\fP option is not set. It works
exactly the same way.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
Most
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  /* accept various URLs */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, input);
  /* use this proxy */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY, "http://proxy:80");
  /* ... but make sure this host name is not proxied */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_NOPROXY, "www.example.com");
  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.19.4
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_PROXY "(3), " CURLOPT_PROXYAUTH "(3), "
