.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLMOPT_PIPELINING_SITE_BL 3 "4 Nov 2014" "libcurl 7.39.0" "curl_multi_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLMOPT_PIPELINING_SITE_BL \- pipelining host block list
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLMcode curl_multi_setopt(CURLM *handle, CURLMOPT_PIPELINING_SITE_BL, char **hosts);
.SH DESCRIPTION
No function since pipelining was removed in 7.62.0.

Pass a \fBhosts\fP array of char *, ending with a NULL entry. This is a list
of sites that are blocked from pipelining, i.e sites that are known to not
support HTTP pipelining. The array is copied by libcurl.

Pass a NULL pointer to clear the block list.
.SH DEFAULT
The default value is NULL, which means that there is no block list.
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP(S)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
  char *site_block_list[] =
  {
    "www.haxx.se",
    "www.example.com:1234",
    NULL
  };

  curl_multi_setopt(m, CURLMOPT_PIPELINING_SITE_BL, site_block_list);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.30.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLM_OK if the option is supported, and CURLM_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLMOPT_PIPELINING "(3), " CURLMOPT_PIPELINING_SERVER_BL "(3), "
