.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2015, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_CONNECT_TO_HOST 3 "26 Mar 2016" "libcurl 7.49.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_CONNECT_TO_HOST \- Connect to a specific host and port instead of the URL's host and port
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_CONNECT_TO_HOST, char *host);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a zero terminated string holding the hostname and port that
are used to establish the network connection for the upcoming request.
The hostname and the port must be separated using a colon ":".
Dotted numerical IP addresses are supported. A numerical IPv6 address must be
written within [brackets].

This option is suitable to direct the request at a specific server, e.g. at a
specific cluster node in a cluster of servers. 

The specified host name and port are only used to establish the network
connection. They do NOT affect the hostname and port that are used for TLS/SSL
or for the application protocols.

In contrast to \fICURLOPT_RESOLVE\fP, the option \fICURLOPT_CONNECT_TO_HOST\fP
does not pre-populate the DNS cache and therefore it does not affect future
transfers of other easy handles that have been added to the same multi handle.

If \fICURLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION\fP is enabled, the \fIconnect to host\fP is also used
for redirected requests if the hostname and port of the redirect URL are the same
as the hostname and port of the original URL.

The \fIconnect to host\fP is ignored if it is equal to the hostname and the
port in the request URL, because connecting to the hostname and the port in the
request URL is the default behavior.

If an HTTP proxy is used for a request having a \fIconnect to host\fP, and the
\fIconnect to host\fP differs from the host and port in the request URL, the
HTTP proxy is automatically switched to tunnel mode for this specific request.
This is necessary because it is not possible to connect to a specific host in
normal (non-tunnel) mode.

.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
TODO
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.49.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_URL "(3), " CURLOPT_RESOLVE "(3), " CURLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION "(3), " CURLOPT_HTTPPROXYTUNNEL  "(3), "
