.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_LOCALADDR 3 "24 Feb 2015" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_LOCALADDR \- source IP address for outgoing traffic
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_LOCALADDR, char *ip_addr);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * as parameter. This sets the \fIP Address\fP to use as
for outgoing connections.  The IP Address can already be set with the
CURLOPT_INTERFACE, but if you want to set both the Interface and the IP
address, then you can set the Interface with CURLOPT_INTERFACE and the
address with CURLOPT_LOCALADDR.  These two options together are also
needed in cases where you are using VRF (on Linux) and have the same
IP Address on multiple different Interfaces.

.SH DEFAULT
NULL, use whatever the TCP stack finds suitable
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
TODO
.SH AVAILABILITY
Not upstream yet.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK on success or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_SOCKOPTFUNCTION "(3), " CURLOPT_INTERFACE "(3), "
