.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_HTTPGET 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_HTTPGET \- ask for an HTTP GET request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_HTTPGET, long useget);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. If \fIuseget\fP is 1, this forces the HTTP request to get back to
using GET. Usable if a POST, HEAD, PUT, etc has been used previously using the
same curl \fIhandle\fP.

When setting \fICURLOPT_HTTPGET(3)\fP to 1, libcurl automatically sets
\fICURLOPT_NOBODY(3)\fP to 0 and \fICURLOPT_UPLOAD(3)\fP to 0.

Setting this option to zero has no effect. Applications need to explicitly
select which HTTP request method to use, they cannot deselect a method. To
reset a handle to default method, consider \fIcurl_easy_reset(3)\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP(S)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* use a GET to fetch this */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_HTTPGET, 1L);

  /* Perform the request */
  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Along with HTTP
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if HTTP is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_reset (3),
.BR CURLOPT_NOBODY (3),
.BR CURLOPT_POST (3),
.BR CURLOPT_UPLOAD (3)
