.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_HTTP_TRANSFER_DECODING 3 "19 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_HTTP_TRANSFER_DECODING \- HTTP transfer decoding control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_HTTP_TRANSFER_DECODING,
                         long enabled);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long to tell libcurl how to act on transfer decoding. If set to zero,
transfer decoding is disabled, if set to 1 it is enabled (default). libcurl
does chunked transfer decoding by default unless this option is set to zero.
.SH DEFAULT
1
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  CURLcode ret;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_HTTP_TRANSFER_DECODING, 0L);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.16.2 Does not work with the hyper backend (it always has transfer
decoding enabled).
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_HTTP_CONTENT_DECODING "(3), " CURLOPT_ACCEPT_ENCODING "(3), "
