.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_PUT 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_PUT \- make an HTTP PUT request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_PUT, long put);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
A parameter set to 1 tells the library to use HTTP PUT to transfer data. The
data should be set with \fICURLOPT_READDATA(3)\fP and
\fICURLOPT_INFILESIZE(3)\fP.

This option is \fBdeprecated\fP since version 7.12.1. Use
\fICURLOPT_UPLOAD(3)\fP!
.SH DEFAULT
0, disabled
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
static size_t read_cb(char *ptr, size_t size, size_t nmemb, void *userdata)
{
  FILE *src = userdata;
  /* copy as much data as possible into the 'ptr' buffer, but no more than
     'size' * 'nmemb' bytes! */
  size_t retcode = fread(ptr, size, nmemb, src);

  return retcode;
}

int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    FILE *src = fopen("local-file", "r");
    curl_off_t fsize; /* set this to the size of the input file */

    /* we want to use our own read function */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_READFUNCTION, read_cb);

    /* enable PUT */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PUT, 1L);

    /* specify target */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com/dir/to/newfile");

    /* now specify which pointer to pass to our callback */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_READDATA, src);

    /* Set the size of the file to upload */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_INFILESIZE_LARGE, (curl_off_t)fsize);

    /* Now run off and do what you have been told! */
    curl_easy_perform(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Deprecated since 7.12.1. Do not use.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if HTTP is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_HTTPGET (3),
.BR CURLOPT_MIMEPOST (3),
.BR CURLOPT_POSTFIELDS (3),
.BR CURLOPT_UPLOAD (3)
