.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_PROTOCOL 3 "23 November 2016" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_PROTOCOL \- get the protocol used in the connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_PROTOCOL, long *p);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This option is deprecated. We strongly recommend using
\fICURLINFO_SCHEME(3)\fP instead, because this option cannot return all
possible protocols!

Pass a pointer to a long to receive the version used in the last http
connection. The returned value is set to one of the CURLPROTO_* values:

.nf
CURLPROTO_DICT, CURLPROTO_FILE, CURLPROTO_FTP, CURLPROTO_FTPS,
CURLPROTO_GOPHER, CURLPROTO_HTTP, CURLPROTO_HTTPS, CURLPROTO_IMAP,
CURLPROTO_IMAPS, CURLPROTO_LDAP, CURLPROTO_LDAPS, CURLPROTO_POP3,
CURLPROTO_POP3S, CURLPROTO_RTMP, CURLPROTO_RTMPE, CURLPROTO_RTMPS,
CURLPROTO_RTMPT, CURLPROTO_RTMPTE, CURLPROTO_RTMPTS, CURLPROTO_RTSP,
CURLPROTO_SCP, CURLPROTO_SFTP, CURLPROTO_SMB, CURLPROTO_SMBS, CURLPROTO_SMTP,
CURLPROTO_SMTPS, CURLPROTO_TELNET, CURLPROTO_TFTP, CURLPROTO_MQTT
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  CURLcode res;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  if(res == CURLE_OK) {
    long protocol;
    curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_PROTOCOL, &protocol);
  }
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.52.0. Deprecated since 7.85.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLINFO_RESPONSE_CODE "(3), "
.BR curl_easy_getinfo "(3), " curl_easy_setopt "(3), "
