.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLMOPT_MAXCONNECTS 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_multi_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLMOPT_MAXCONNECTS \- size of connection cache
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLMcode curl_multi_setopt(CURLM *handle, CURLMOPT_MAXCONNECTS, long max);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long indicating the \fBmax\fP. The set number will be used as the
maximum amount of simultaneously open connections that libcurl may keep in its
connection cache after completed use. By default libcurl will enlarge the size
for each added easy handle to make it fit 4 times the number of added easy
handles.

By setting this option, you can prevent the cache size from growing beyond the
limit set by you.

When the cache is full, curl closes the oldest one in the cache to prevent the
number of open connections from increasing.

This option is for the multi handle's use only, when using the easy interface
you should instead use the \fICURLOPT_MAXCONNECTS(3)\fP option.

See \fICURLMOPT_MAX_TOTAL_CONNECTIONS(3)\fP for limiting the number of active
connections.

.SH DEFAULT
See DESCRIPTION
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURLM *m = curl_multi_init();
/* only keep 10 connections in the cache */
curl_multi_setopt(m, CURLMOPT_MAXCONNECTS, 10L);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.16.3
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLM_OK if the option is supported, and CURLM_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLMOPT_MAX_HOST_CONNECTIONS "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_MAXCONNECTS "(3), "
