.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2016, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_LIBPROXY 3 "26 Jul 2016" "libcurl 7.51.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_LIBPROXY \- enable automatic proxy detection via libproxy
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_LIBPROXY, long enable);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Set \fIenable\fP to 1L to tell libcurl to use the libproxy API to determine
which proxy, if any, to use for each request according to the system
configuration.
.SH DEFAULT
0 (off)
.SH PROTOCOLS
All except file://. Note that some protocols don't do very well over proxy.
.SH EXAMPLE
TODO
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.51.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if libproxy is supported, CURLE_NOT_BUILT_IN if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_PROXYPORT "(3), " CURLOPT_HTTPPROXYTUNNEL "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_PROXYTYPE "(3), " CURLOPT_PROXY "(3)" "
