.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_SSLKEY_BLOB 3 "24 Jun 2020" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_SSLKEY_BLOB \- private key for client cert from memory blob
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_SSLKEY_BLOB,
                          struct curl_blob *blob);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a curl_blob structure, which contains information (pointer
and size) for a private key. Compatible with OpenSSL. The format (like "PEM")
must be specified with \fICURLOPT_SSLKEYTYPE(3)\fP.

If the blob is initialized with the flags member of struct curl_blob set to
CURL_BLOB_COPY, the application does not have to keep the buffer around after
setting this.

This option is an alternative to \fICURLOPT_SSLKEY(3)\fP which instead expects
a file name as input.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS based protocols: HTTPS, FTPS, IMAPS, POP3S, SMTPS etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf

extern char *certificateData; /* point to cert */
extern size_t filesize; /* size of cert */

extern char *privateKeyData; /* point to key */
extern size_t privateKeySize; /* size of key */

int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode res;
    struct curl_blob blob;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
    blob.data = certificateData;
    blob.len = filesize;
    blob.flags = CURL_BLOB_COPY;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SSLCERT_BLOB, &blob);
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SSLCERTTYPE, "PEM");

    blob.data = privateKeyData;
    blob.len = privateKeySize;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SSLKEY_BLOB, &blob);
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_KEYPASSWD, "s3cret");
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SSLKEYTYPE, "PEM");
    res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
    curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.71.0. This option is supported by the OpenSSL backends.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if TLS enabled, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_SSLKEYTYPE (3),
.BR CURLOPT_SSLKEY (3)
