.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_PROXYPORT 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_PROXYPORT \- port number the proxy listens on
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_PROXYPORT, long port);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
We discourage use of this option.

Pass a long with this option to set the proxy port to connect to unless it is
specified in the proxy string \fICURLOPT_PROXY(3)\fP or uses 443 for https
proxies and 1080 for all others as default.

While this accepts a 'long', the port number is 16 bit so it cannot be larger
than 65535.
.SH DEFAULT
0, not specified which makes it use the default port
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode res;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/foo.bin");
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY, "localhost");
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXYPORT, 8080L);
    res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
    curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLINFO_PRIMARY_PORT (3),
.BR CURLOPT_PORT (3),
.BR CURLOPT_PROXY (3),
.BR CURLOPT_PROXYTYPE (3)
