.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_NUM_CONNECTS 3 "12 Sep 2015" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_NUM_CONNECTS \- get number of created connections
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_NUM_CONNECTS, long *nump);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a long to receive how many new connections libcurl had to
create to achieve the previous transfer (only the successful connects are
counted).  Combined with \fICURLINFO_REDIRECT_COUNT(3)\fP you are able to know
how many times libcurl successfully reused existing connection(s) or not.  See
the connection options of \fIcurl_easy_setopt(3)\fP to see how libcurl tries
to make persistent connections to save time.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  CURLcode res;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION, 1L);
  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  if(res == CURLE_OK) {
    long connects;
    res = curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_NUM_CONNECTS, &connects);
    if(res)
      printf("It needed %d connects\\n", connects);
  }
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.12.3
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo (3),
.BR curl_easy_setopt (3)
