.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPIDLE 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPIDLE \- set TCP keep-alive idle time wait
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPIDLE, long delay);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. Sets the \fIdelay\fP, in seconds, that the operating system will
wait while the connection is idle before sending keepalive probes. Not all
operating systems support this option.
.SH DEFAULT
60
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "http://example.com");

  /* enable TCP keep-alive for this transfer */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPALIVE, 1L);

  /* set keep-alive idle time to 120 seconds */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPIDLE, 120L);

  /* interval time between keep-alive probes: 60 seconds */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPINTVL, 60L);

  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.25.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPALIVE "(3), " CURLOPT_TCP_KEEPINTVL "(3), "
