.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_HAPROXY_CLIENT_IP 3 "8 May 2023" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_HAPROXY_CLIENT_IP \- set HAProxy PROXY protocol client IP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_HAPROXY_CLIENT_IP,
                          char *client_ip);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
When this parameter is set to a valid IPv4 or IPv6 numerical address, the
library sends this address as client address in the HAProxy PROXY protocol v1
header at beginning of the connection.

This option is an alternative to \fICURLOPT_HAPROXYPROTOCOL(3)\fP as that one
cannot use a specified address.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL, no HAProxy header is sent
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP, HAProxy PROTOCOL
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  CURLcode ret;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_HAPROXY_CLIENT_IP, "1.1.1.1");
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Along with HTTP. Added in 8.2.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if HTTP is enabled, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR CURLOPT_PROXY "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_HAPROXYPROTOCOL "(3), "
