.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_TIMEOUT_MS 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_TIMEOUT_MS \- maximum time the transfer is allowed to complete
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_TIMEOUT_MS, long timeout);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as parameter containing \fItimeout\fP - the maximum time in
milliseconds that you allow the libcurl transfer operation to take.

See \fICURLOPT_TIMEOUT(3)\fP for details.
.SH DEFAULT
Default timeout is 0 (zero) which means it never times out during transfer.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* complete within 20000 milliseconds */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TIMEOUT_MS, 20000L);

  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_TIMEOUT "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT "(3), " CURLOPT_LOW_SPEED_LIMIT "(3), "
