.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_REDIR_PROTOCOLS 3 "19 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_REDIR_PROTOCOLS \- protocols allowed to redirect to
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_REDIR_PROTOCOLS, long bitmask);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This option is deprecated. We strongly recommend using
\fICURLOPT_REDIR_PROTOCOLS_STR(3)\fP instead because this option cannot
control all available protocols!

Pass a long that holds a bitmask of CURLPROTO_* defines. If used, this bitmask
limits what protocols libcurl may use in a transfer that it follows to in a
redirect when \fICURLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION(3)\fP is enabled. This allows you to
limit specific transfers to only be allowed to use a subset of protocols in
redirections.

Protocols denied by \fICURLOPT_PROTOCOLS(3)\fP are not overridden by this
option.

By default libcurl allows HTTP, HTTPS, FTP and FTPS on redirect (7.65.2).
\fICURLPROTO_ALL\fP enables all protocols on redirect, including those
otherwise disabled for security.

These are the available protocol defines:
.nf
CURLPROTO_DICT
CURLPROTO_FILE
CURLPROTO_FTP
CURLPROTO_FTPS
CURLPROTO_GOPHER
CURLPROTO_HTTP
CURLPROTO_HTTPS
CURLPROTO_IMAP
CURLPROTO_IMAPS
CURLPROTO_LDAP
CURLPROTO_LDAPS
CURLPROTO_POP3
CURLPROTO_POP3S
CURLPROTO_RTMP
CURLPROTO_RTMPE
CURLPROTO_RTMPS
CURLPROTO_RTMPT
CURLPROTO_RTMPTE
CURLPROTO_RTMPTS
CURLPROTO_RTSP
CURLPROTO_SCP
CURLPROTO_SFTP
CURLPROTO_SMB
CURLPROTO_SMBS
CURLPROTO_SMTP
CURLPROTO_SMTPS
CURLPROTO_TELNET
CURLPROTO_TFTP
.fi
.SH DEFAULT
HTTP, HTTPS, FTP and FTPS (Added in 7.65.2).

Older versions defaulted to all protocols except FILE, SCP and since 7.40.0
SMB and SMBS.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  /* pass in the URL from an external source */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, argv[1]);

  /* only allow redirects to HTTP and HTTPS URLs */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_REDIR_PROTOCOLS,
                   CURLPROTO_HTTP | CURLPROTO_HTTPS);

  /* Perform the request */
  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.19.4, before then it would follow all protocols. Deprecated
since 7.85.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLINFO_SCHEME (3),
.BR CURLOPT_DEFAULT_PROTOCOL (3),
.BR CURLOPT_PROTOCOLS (3),
.BR CURLOPT_REDIR_PROTOCOLS_STR (3)
