.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_DICT_CLIENTNAME 3 "16 Apr 2020" "libcurl 7.70.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_DICT_CLIENTNAME \- set DICT CLIENT name
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_DICT_CLIENTNAME, char *cn);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a zero terminated string as parameter. It will be used to
set the CLIENT field in the DICT request sent to the remote server. This
can be used to fool servers or scripts.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL, The string "libcurl CURRENTVERSION" will be used.
.SH PROTOCOLS
DICT
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "dict://example.com/d:Test");

  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_DICT_CLIENTNAME, "definitely_not_libcurl");

  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
As long as DICT is supported
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if DICT is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
