.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_FTP_USE_EPSV 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_FTP_USE_EPSV \- enable/disable use of EPSV
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_FTP_USE_EPSV, long epsv);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass \fIepsv\fP as a long. If the value is 1, it tells curl to use the EPSV
command when doing passive FTP downloads (which it does by default). Using
EPSV means that it will first attempt to use EPSV before using PASV, but if
you pass zero to this option, it will not try using EPSV, only plain PASV.

If the server is an IPv6 host, this option will have no effect as of 7.12.3.
.SH DEFAULT
1
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com/old-server/file.txt");

  /* let's shut off this modern feature */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_FTP_USE_EPSV, 0L);

  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);

  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Along with FTP
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if FTP is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_FTP_USE_EPRT "(3), " CURLOPT_FTPPORT "(3), "
