.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2018, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_FILETIME 3 "25 Jan 2018" "libcurl 7.59.0" "curl_easy_getinfo options"
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_FILETIME_T \- get the remote time of the retrieved document
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_FILETIME_T, curl_off_t *timep);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a curl_off_t to receive the remote time of the retrieved
document (in number of seconds since 1 jan 1970 in the GMT/UTC time zone). If
you get -1, it can be because of many reasons (it might be unknown, the server
might hide it or the server doesn't support the command that tells document
time etc) and the time of the document is unknown.

You must ask libcurl to collect this information before the transfer is made,
by using the \fICURLOPT_FILETIME(3)\fP option to \fIcurl_easy_setopt(3)\fP or
you will unconditionally get a -1 back.

This option is an alternative to \fICURLINFO_FILETIME(3)\fP to allow systems
with 32 bit long variables to extract dates outside of the 32bit timestamp
range.
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP(S), FTP(S), SFTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, url);
  /* Ask for filetime */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_FILETIME, 1L);
  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  if(CURLE_OK == res) {
    curl_off_t filetime;
    res = curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_FILETIME_T, &filetime);
    if((CURLE_OK == res) && (filetime >= 0)) {
      time_t file_time = (time_t)filetime;
      printf("filetime %s: %s", filename, ctime(&file_time));
    }
  }
  /* always cleanup */
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.59.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo "(3), " curl_easy_setopt "(3), "
