.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_PROXYAUTH 3 "19 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_PROXYAUTH \- HTTP proxy authentication methods
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_PROXYAUTH, long bitmask);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as parameter, which is set to a bitmask, to tell libcurl which
HTTP authentication method(s) you want it to use for your proxy
authentication. If more than one bit is set, libcurl first queries the site to
see what authentication methods it supports and then it picks the best one you
allow it to use. For some methods, this induces an extra network round-trip.
Set the actual name and password with the \fICURLOPT_PROXYUSERPWD(3)\fP
option.

The bitmask can be constructed by the bits listed and described in the
\fICURLOPT_HTTPAUTH(3)\fP man page.
.SH DEFAULT
CURLAUTH_BASIC
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode ret;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
    /* use this proxy */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY, "http://local.example.com:1080");
    /* allow whatever auth the proxy speaks */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXYAUTH, CURLAUTH_ANY);
    /* set the proxy credentials */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXYUSERPWD, "james:007");
    ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
    curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.10.7
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_NOT_BUILT_IN if the bitmask specified no supported authentication
methods.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_HTTPAUTH (3),
.BR CURLOPT_PROXY (3),
.BR CURLOPT_PROXYPORT (3),
.BR CURLOPT_PROXYTYPE (3),
.BR CURLOPT_PROXYUSERPWD (3)
