.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLSHOPT_STDERR 3 "17 Oct 2023" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLSHOPT_STDERR \- redirect stderr to another stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLSHcode curl_share_setopt(CURLSH *share, CURLSHOPT_STDERR, FILE *stream);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a FILE * as parameter. Tell libcurl to use this \fIstream\fP instead of
stderr for displaying verbose data.

This option is used to set the stderr stream for a shared object and the easy
handles associated with it.

\fICURLSHOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION(3)\fP, \fICURLSHOPT_DEBUGDATA(3)\fP,
 \fICURLSHOPT_VERBOSE(3)\fP and \fICURLSHOPT_STDERR(3)\fP can be used
as defaults for all easy handles that use the same share. They are also
used for internal handles, for example when closing cached connections.

They take effect only for easy handles when this share is set for them
using \fICURLOPT_SHARE(3)\fP. They only apply to easy handles that have
default values for \fICURLOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION(3)\fP, \fICURLOPT_DEBUGDATA(3)\fP,
\fICURLOPT_VERBOSE(3)\fP and \fICURLOPT_STDERR(3)\fP.

If you are using libcurl as a Windows DLL, this option causes an exception and
a crash in the library since it cannot access a FILE * passed on from the
application. A work-around is to instead use \fICURLSHOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION(3)\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
stderr
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
FILE *filep = fopen("dump", "wb");
curl_share_setopt(share, CURLSHOPT_STDERR, filep);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_STDERR (3),
.BR CURLMOPT_STDERR (3),
.BR CURLSHOPT_DEBUGDATA (3),
.BR CURLSHOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION (3),
.BR CURLSHOPT_VERBOSE (3)
