.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_CAPATH 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_CAPATH \- directory holding CA certificates
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_CAPATH, char *capath);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * to a null-terminated string naming a directory holding multiple
CA certificates to verify the peer with. If libcurl is built against OpenSSL,
the certificate directory must be prepared using the OpenSSL c_rehash utility.
This makes sense only when used in combination with the
\fICURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER(3)\fP option.

The \fICURLOPT_CAPATH(3)\fP function apparently does not work in Windows due
to some limitation in OpenSSL.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.

The default value for this can be figured out with \fICURLINFO_CAPATH(3)\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
A default path detected at build time.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS based protocols: HTTPS, FTPS, IMAPS, POP3S, SMTPS etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode res;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_CAPATH, "/etc/cert-dir");
    res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
    curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This option is supported by the OpenSSL, GnuTLS and mbedTLS (since 7.56.0)
backends.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CURLE_OK if supported; or an error such as:

CURLE_NOT_BUILT_IN - Not supported by the SSL backend

CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION

CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLINFO_CAPATH (3),
.BR CURLOPT_CAINFO (3),
.BR CURLOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION (3),
.BR CURLOPT_STDERR (3)
