.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2015, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_TRUSTED_AUTH 3 "11 Oct 2015" "libcurl 7.46.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_TRUSTED_AUTH \- send credentials to trusted hosts too
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_TRUSTED_AUTH, char *trusted);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a zero terminated string. The string consists of a comma
separated list of host names that will be sent HTTP user and password
authentication. The only wildcard available is a single * character, which
matches all hosts. This option overrides \fICURLOPT_UNRESTRICTED_AUTH(3)\fP.This
option is meaningful only when setting \fICURLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION(3)\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
TODO
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.46.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if HTTP is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION "(3), " CURLOPT_UNRESTRICTED_AUTH "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_USERPWD "(3), "
