.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_PRIMARY_PORT 3 "12 Sep 2015" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_PRIMARY_PORT \- get the latest destination port number
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_PRIMARY_PORT, long *portp);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a long to receive the destination port of the most recent
connection done with this \fBcurl\fP handle.

This is the destination port of the actual TCP or UDP connection libcurl used.
If a proxy was used for the most recent transfer, this is the port number of
the proxy, if no proxy was used it is the port number of the most recently
accessed URL.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode res;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
    res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
    if(res == CURLE_OK) {
      long port;
      res = curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_PRIMARY_PORT, &port);
      if(!res)
        printf("Connected to remote port: %ld\\n", port);
    }
    curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.21.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo (3),
.BR curl_easy_setopt (3),
.BR CURLINFO_LOCAL_PORT (3),
.BR CURLINFO_PRIMARY_IP (3)
