.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_INTERLEAVEDATA 3 "19 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_INTERLEAVEDATA \- pointer passed to RTSP interleave callback
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_INTERLEAVEDATA, void *pointer);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is the userdata \fIpointer\fP that is passed to
\fICURLOPT_INTERLEAVEFUNCTION(3)\fP when interleaved RTP data is received. If
the interleave function callback is not set, this pointer is not used
anywhere.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
RTSP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
static size_t rtp_write(void *ptr, size_t size, size_t nmemb, void *user)
{
  struct local *l = (struct local *)user;
  /* take care of the packet in 'ptr', then return... */
  return size * nmemb;
}
{
  struct local rtp_data;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_INTERLEAVEFUNCTION, rtp_write);
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_INTERLEAVEDATA, &rtp_data);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.20.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_INTERLEAVEFUNCTION (3),
.BR CURLOPT_RTSP_REQUEST (3)
