.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_IP_VERSION 3 "18 Dec 2017" "libcurl 7.58.0" "curl_easy_getinfo options"
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_IP_VERSION \- get the requested ip version
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_PROTOCOL, long *p);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a long to receive the requested ip version for this
easy handle.
The returned value will be one of the CURL_IPRESOLVE_* values.

.IP CURL_IPRESOLVE_WHATEVER
Default, resolves addresses to all IP versions that your system allows.
.IP CURL_IPRESOLVE_V4
Resolve to IPv4 addresses.
.IP CURL_IPRESOLVE_V6

This returns the value set by with CURLOPT_IPRESOLVE. It's primarily
useful for implementing custom resolvers.

.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.58.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_IPRESOLVE "(3), "
.BR curl_easy_getinfo "(3), " curl_easy_setopt "(3), "
