.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_RANDOM_FILE 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_RANDOM_FILE \- file to read random data from
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_RANDOM_FILE, char *path);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Deprecated option. It serves no purpose anymore.

Pass a char * to a null-terminated file name. The file might be used to read
from to seed the random engine for SSL and more.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL, not used
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_RANDOM_FILE, "junk.txt");
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
If built with TLS enabled. Only the OpenSSL backend uses this, and only with
OpenSSL versions before 1.1.0.

This option was deprecated in 7.84.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK on success or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_EGDSOCKET "(3), "
