.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_AUTOREFERER 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_AUTOREFERER \- automatically update the referer header
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_AUTOREFERER, long autorefer);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long parameter set to 1 to enable this. When enabled, libcurl
automatically sets the Referer: header field in HTTP requests to the full URL
when it follows a Location: redirect to a new destination.

The automatic referer is set to the full previous URL even when redirects are
done cross-origin or following redirects to insecure protocols. This is
considered a minor privacy leak by some.

With \fICURLINFO_REFERER(3)\fP, applications can extract the actually used
referer header after the transfer.
.SH DEFAULT
0, disabled
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode res;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/foo.bin");

    /* follow redirects */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION, 1L);

    /* set Referer: automatically when following redirects */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_AUTOREFERER, 1L);

    res = curl_easy_perform(curl);

    curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Along with HTTP
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if HTTP is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLINFO_EFFECTIVE_URL (3),
.BR CURLINFO_REDIRECT_URL (3),
.BR CURLINFO_REFERER (3),
.BR CURLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION (3),
.BR CURLOPT_REFERER (3)
