.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_CA_CACHE_TIMEOUT 3 "21 Dec 2022" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_CA_CACHE_TIMEOUT \- life-time for cached certificate stores
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_CA_CACHE_TIMEOUT, long age);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long, this sets the timeout in seconds. This tells libcurl the maximum
time any cached certificate store it has in memory may be kept and reused for
new connections. Once the timeout has expired, a subsequent fetch requiring a
certificate has to reload it.

Building a certificate store from a \fICURLOPT_CAINFO(3)\fP file is a slow
operation so curl may cache the generated certificate store internally to speed
up future connections.

Set to zero to completely disable caching, or set to -1 to retain the cached
store remain forever. By default, libcurl caches this info for 24 hours.
.SH DEFAULT
86400 (24 hours)
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/foo.bin");

  /* only reuse certificate stores for a short time */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_CA_CACHE_TIMEOUT, 60L);

  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);

  /* in this second request, the cache is not used if more than
     sixty seconds passed since the previous connection */
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);

  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This option was added in curl 7.87.0.

Currently the only SSL backend to implement this certificate store caching
functionality is the OpenSSL (and forks) backend.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_CAINFO (3),
.BR CURLOPT_CAINFO_BLOB (3),
.BR CURLOPT_CAPATH (3),
.BR CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER (3),
.BR CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYHOST (3)
