.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_TIMECONDITION 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_TIMECONDITION \- select condition for a time request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_TIMECONDITION, long cond);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as parameter. This defines how the \fICURLOPT_TIMEVALUE(3)\fP time
value is treated. You can set this parameter to \fICURL_TIMECOND_IFMODSINCE\fP
or \fICURL_TIMECOND_IFUNMODSINCE\fP.

The last modification time of a file is not always known and in such instances
this feature has no effect even if the given time condition would not have
been met. \fIcurl_easy_getinfo(3)\fP with the \fICURLINFO_CONDITION_UNMET\fP
option can be used after a transfer to learn if a zero-byte successful
"transfer" was due to this condition not matching.
.SH DEFAULT
CURL_TIMECOND_NONE (0)
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP, FTP, RTSP, and FILE
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

    /* January 1, 2020 is 1577833200 */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TIMEVALUE, 1577833200L);

    /* If-Modified-Since the above time stamp */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TIMECONDITION,
                     (long)CURL_TIMECOND_IFMODSINCE);

    /* Perform the request */
    curl_easy_perform(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_TIMEVALUE (3),
.BR CURLINFO_FILETIME (3)
