.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2022, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_STREAM_WINDOW_SIZE 3 "17 Nov 2021" "libcurl 7.82.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_STREAM_WINDOW_SIZE \- set stream window size for http2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLMcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_STREAM_WINDOW_SIZE,
                           long size);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long indicating the sender's HTTP/2 initial stream window \fBsize\fP in
bytes. This setting affects the initial window size of all streams. When using
\fIcurl_easy_pause(3)\fP, this value is also the maximum number of bytes
libcurl has to buffer for a paused stream.

If you add this easy handle to a multi handle, this setting is not
acknowledged, and you must instead use \fIcurl_multi_setopt(3)\fP and the
\fICURLMOPT_STREAM_WINDOW_SIZE(3)\fP option.

Valid values range from 1 to 2147483647 (0x7FFFFFFF).
.SH DEFAULT
33554432 (32 megabytes)
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP/2
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  /* set stream window size to HTTP/2 default 2^16-1 */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_STREAM_WINDOW_SIZE, 65535L);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.82.0
.SH RETURN VALUE

Returns CURLE_OK of the option is supported and window size is within range,
CURLE_BAD_FUNCTION_ARGUMENT if not within range. Returns CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION
if the option is not supported.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_pause "(3), " CURLMOPT_STREAM_WINDOW_SIZE "(3)"
