.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_ABSTRACT_UNIX_SOCKET 3 "08 Jan 2017" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_ABSTRACT_UNIX_SOCKET \- abstract Unix domain socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_ABSTRACT_UNIX_SOCKET,
                          char *path);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Enables the use of an abstract Unix domain socket instead of establishing a
TCP connection to a host. The parameter should be a char * to a
null-terminated string holding the path of the socket. The path is set to
\fIpath\fP prefixed by a NULL byte. This is the convention for abstract
sockets, however it should be stressed that the path passed to this function
should not contain a leading NULL byte.

On non-supporting platforms, the abstract address is interpreted as an empty
string and fails gracefully, generating a runtime error.

This option shares the same semantics as \fICURLOPT_UNIX_SOCKET_PATH(3)\fP in
which documentation more details can be found. Internally, these two options
share the same storage and therefore only one of them can be set per handle.
.SH DEFAULT
Default is NULL.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_ABSTRACT_UNIX_SOCKET, "/tmp/foo.sock");
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "http://localhost/");

    /* Perform the request */
    curl_easy_perform(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.53.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_UNIX_SOCKET_PATH (3),
.BR unix (7)
