.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2022, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_AWS_SIGV4_NB_ENCODING 3 "03 Mars 2022" "libcurl 7.82.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_AWS_SIGV4_NB_ENCODING \- V4 signature Number of Encoding
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_AWS_SIGV4_NB_ENCODING, int param);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Tell AWS V4 signature authentication the number of
URL Encode that should be made.
.PP
AWS V4 signature should URL encode the URI,
using this option tell curl to do it (or not),
0 do not encode, and 1, do a single pass encoding.
Double encoding is not yet supported.
.IP Number
0 or 1
.SH DEFAULT
By default, the value of this parameter is 0.
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();

struct curl_slist *list = NULL;

if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL,
                  "https://service.region.example.com/uri");
  curl_easy_setopt(c, CURLOPT_AWS_SIGV4, "provider1:provider2");
  curl_easy_setopt(c, CURLOPT_AWS_SIGV4_NB_ENCODING, 1);
  curl_easy_setopt(c, CURLOPT_USERPWD, "MY_ACCESS_KEY:MY_SECRET_KEY");
  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.82.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH NOTES
This option is useful only comnbined with CURLOPT_AWS_SIGV4
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_AWS_SIGV4 "(3), "
