.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_PROXY_SSL_VERIFYRESULT 3 "16 Nov 2016" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_PROXY_SSL_VERIFYRESULT \- get the result of the proxy certificate verification
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_PROXY_SSL_VERIFYRESULT,
                           long *result);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a long to receive the result of the certificate verification
that was requested (using the \fICURLOPT_PROXY_SSL_VERIFYPEER(3)\fP
option. This is only used for HTTPS proxies.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode res;
    long verifyresult;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY, "https://proxy:443");
    res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
    if(res)
      printf("error: %s\\n", curl_easy_strerror(res));
    curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_PROXY_SSL_VERIFYRESULT, &verifyresult);
    printf("The peer verification said %s\\n", verifyresult?
           "fine" : "bad");
    curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.52.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo (3),
.BR curl_easy_setopt (3),
.BR CURLINFO_SSL_VERIFYRESULT (3)
