.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_SSH_PUBLIC_KEYFILE 3 "19 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_SSH_PUBLIC_KEYFILE \- public key file for SSH auth
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_SSH_PUBLIC_KEYFILE,
                          char *filename);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * pointing to a \fIfilename\fP for your public key. If not used,
libcurl defaults to \fB$HOME/.ssh/id_dsa.pub\fP if the HOME environment
variable is set, and just "id_dsa.pub" in the current directory if HOME is not
set.

If NULL (or an empty string) is passed to this option, libcurl passes no
public key to the SSH library, which then rather derives it from the private
key. If the SSH library cannot derive the public key from the private one and
no public one is provided, the transfer fails.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
SFTP and SCP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode res;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "sftp://example.com/file");
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SSH_PUBLIC_KEYFILE,
                     "/home/clarkkent/.ssh/id_rsa.pub");
    res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
    curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
The "" trick was added in 7.26.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_SSH_PRIVATE_KEYFILE (3),
.BR CURLOPT_SSH_AUTH_TYPES (3)
