.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2022, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_SSLENGINE_DEFAULT 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_SSLENGINE_DEFAULT \- make SSL engine default
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_SSLENGINE_DEFAULT, long val);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long set to 1 to make the already specified crypto engine the default
for (asymmetric) crypto operations.

This option has no effect unless set after \fICURLOPT_SSLENGINE(3)\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
None
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS based protocols: HTTPS, FTPS, IMAPS, POP3S, SMTPS etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SSLENGINE, "dynamic");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SSLENGINE_DEFAULT, 1L);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Only if the SSL backend is OpenSSL built with engine support.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CURLE_OK - Engine set as default.

CURLE_SSL_ENGINE_SETFAILED - Engine could not be set as default.

CURLE_NOT_BUILT_IN - Option not built in, OpenSSL is not the SSL backend.

CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION - Option not recognized.

CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY - Insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_SSLENGINE "(3), " CURLOPT_SSLCERT "(3), "
