.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLMOPT_MAX_PIPELINE_LENGTH 3 "4 Nov 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLMOPT_MAX_PIPELINE_LENGTH \- maximum number of requests in a pipeline
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLMcode curl_multi_setopt(CURLM *handle, CURLMOPT_MAX_PIPELINE_LENGTH,
                            long max);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
No function since pipelining was removed in 7.62.0.

Pass a long. The set \fBmax\fP number is used as the maximum amount of
outstanding requests in an HTTP/1.1 pipeline. This option is only used for
HTTP/1.1 pipelining, not for HTTP/2 multiplexing.

When this limit is reached, libcurl creates another connection to the same
host (see \fICURLMOPT_MAX_HOST_CONNECTIONS(3)\fP), or queue the request until
one of the pipelines to the host is ready to accept a request.  Thus, the
total number of requests in-flight is \fICURLMOPT_MAX_HOST_CONNECTIONS(3)\fP *
\fICURLMOPT_MAX_PIPELINE_LENGTH(3)\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
5
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP(S)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURLM *m = curl_multi_init();
/* set a more conservative pipe length */
curl_multi_setopt(m, CURLMOPT_MAX_PIPELINE_LENGTH, 3L);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.30.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLM_OK if the option is supported, and CURLM_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLMOPT_PIPELINING "(3), " CURLMOPT_MAX_HOST_CONNECTIONS "(3), "
