.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_MAIL_RCPT 3 "19 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_MAIL_RCPT \- list of SMTP mail recipients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_MAIL_RCPT,
                          struct curl_slist *rcpts);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a linked list of recipients to pass to the server in your
SMTP mail request. The linked list should be a fully valid list of
\fBstruct curl_slist\fP structs properly filled in. Use
\fIcurl_slist_append(3)\fP to create the list and \fIcurl_slist_free_all(3)\fP
to clean up an entire list.

When performing a mail transfer, each recipient should be specified within a
pair of angled brackets (<>), however, should you not use an angled bracket as
the first character libcurl assumes you provided a single email address and
encloses that address within brackets for you.

When performing an address verification (\fBVRFY\fP command), each recipient
should be specified as the user name or user name and domain (as per Section
3.5 of RFC 5321).

When performing a mailing list expand (\fBEXPN\fP command), each recipient
should be specified using the mailing list name, such as "Friends" or
"London-Office".
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
SMTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  struct curl_slist *list;
  list = curl_slist_append(NULL, "root@localhost");
  list = curl_slist_append(list, "person@example.com");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "smtp://example.com/");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_MAIL_RCPT, list);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_slist_free_all(list);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.20.0. The \fBVRFY\fP and \fBEXPN\fP logic was added in 7.34.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_MAIL_AUTH (3),
.BR CURLOPT_MAIL_FROM (3)
