.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2022, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_SOCKS5_AUTH 3 "27 April 2017" "libcurl 7.55.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_SOCKS5_AUTH \- methods for SOCKS5 proxy authentication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_SOCKS5_AUTH, long bitmask);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as parameter, which is set to a bitmask, to tell libcurl which
authentication method(s) are allowed for SOCKS5 proxy authentication.  The only
supported flags are \fICURLAUTH_BASIC\fP, which allows username/password
authentication, \fICURLAUTH_GSSAPI\fP, which allows GSS-API authentication, and
\fICURLAUTH_NONE\fP, which allows no authentication.  Set the actual user name
and password with the \fICURLOPT_PROXYUSERPWD(3)\fP option.
.SH DEFAULT
CURLAUTH_BASIC|CURLAUTH_GSSAPI
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* request to use a SOCKS5 proxy */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY, "socks5://user:pass@myproxy.com");

  /* enable username/password authentication only */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_SOCKS5_AUTH, CURLAUTH_BASIC);

  /* Perform the request */
  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.55.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_NOT_BUILT_IN if the bitmask contains unsupported flags.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_PROXY "(3), " CURLOPT_PROXYTYPE "(3)"
