.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_COOKIELIST 3 "1 Sep 2015" "libcurl 7.44.0" "curl_easy_getinfo options"
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_COOKIELIST \- get all known cookies
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_COOKIELIST,
                           struct curl_slist **cookies);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a 'struct curl_slist *' to receive a linked-list of all
cookies curl knows (expired ones, too). Don't forget to call
\fIcurl_slist_free_all(3)\fP on the list after it has been used.  If there are
no cookies (cookies for the handle have not been enabled or simply none have
been received) 'struct curl_slist *' will be set to point to NULL.

Since 7.43.0 cookies that were imported in the Set-Cookie format without a
domain name are not exported by this option.
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP(S)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "http://example.com");

  /* enable the cookie engine */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_COOKIEFILE, "");

  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);

  if(!res) {
    /* extract all known cookies */
    struct curl_slist *cookies = NULL;
    res = curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_COOKIELIST, &cookies);
    if(!res && cookies) {
      /* a linked list of cookies in cookie file format */
      struct curl_slist *each = cookies;
      while(each) {
        printf("%s\\n", each->data);
        each = each->next;
      }
      /* we must free these cookies when we're done */
      curl_slist_free_all(cookies);
    }
  }
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.14.1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo "(3), " curl_easy_setopt "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_COOKIELIST "(3), "
