.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2022, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_PRIMARY_IP 3 "12 Sep 2015" "libcurl 7.44.0" "curl_easy_getinfo options"
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_PRIMARY_IP \- get IP address of last connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_PRIMARY_IP, char **ip);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a char pointer to receive the pointer to a null-terminated
string holding the IP address of the most recent connection done with this
\fBcurl\fP handle. This string may be IPv6 when that is enabled. Note that you
get a pointer to a memory area that will be re-used at next request so you
need to copy the string if you want to keep the information.

The \fBip\fP pointer will be NULL or pointing to private memory you MUST NOT
free - it gets freed when you call \fIcurl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP on the
corresponding CURL handle.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All network based ones
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
{
  char *ip;

  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* Perform the request, res will get the return code */
  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  /* Check for errors */
  if((res == CURLE_OK) &&
     !curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_PRIMARY_IP, &ip) && ip) {
    printf("IP: %s\\n", ip);
  }

  /* always cleanup */
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.19.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo "(3), " curl_easy_setopt "(3), "
.BR CURLINFO_PRIMARY_PORT "(3), " CURLINFO_LOCAL_IP "(3), "
