.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2019, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_GSS_DELEGCRED 3 "27 Jun 2019" "libcurl 7.66.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_GSS_DELEGCRED \- set the credentials to init the security context, which is used for Kerberos credential delegated situation.
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_GSS_DELEGCRED, void* cred);
.SH DESCRIPTION
pass the delegated credentials through cred to libcurl, so that the libcurl could impersonate the original client to retrieve remote resource.

.SH DEFAULT
By default, the cred is NULL, that means default security context would be used(GSS_C_NO_CREDENTIAL is acting as a default initiator principal).
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  CURLcode ret;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  /* accept and acquire delegated cred passed from original client*/
  gss_cred_id_t cred = GSS_C_NO_CREDENTIAL; 
  ...
  gss_accept_sec_context(..., &cred);
  ... 
  /* pass the cred to libcurl */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_GSS_DELEGCRED,
                         cred);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi

.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.66.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_HTTPAUTH "(3), " CURLOPT_PROXYAUTH "(3), "
