.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_COOKIESESSION 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_COOKIESESSION \- start a new cookie session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_COOKIESESSION, long init);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long set to 1 to mark this as a new cookie "session". It forces libcurl
to ignore all cookies it is about to load that are "session cookies" from the
previous session. By default, libcurl always loads all cookies, independent if
they are session cookies or not. Session cookies are cookies without expiry
date and they are meant to be alive and existing for this "session" only.

A "session" is usually defined in browser land for as long as you have your
browser up, more or less. libcurl needs the application to use this option to
tell it when a new session starts, otherwise it assumes everything is still in
the same session.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode res;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/foo.bin");

    /* new "session", do not load session cookies */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_COOKIESESSION, 1L);

    /* get the (non session) cookies from this file */
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_COOKIEFILE, "/tmp/cookies.txt");

    res = curl_easy_perform(curl);

    curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Along with HTTP
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_COOKIE (3),
.BR CURLOPT_COOKIEFILE (3),
.BR CURLOPT_COOKIEJAR (3)
