.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_SCHEME 3 "23 November 2016" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_SCHEME \- get the URL scheme (sometimes called protocol) used in the connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_SCHEME, char **scheme);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a char pointer to receive the pointer to a null-terminated
string holding the URL scheme used for the most recent connection done with
this CURL \fBhandle\fP.

The \fBscheme\fP pointer is NULL or points to private memory. You MUST NOT
free - it gets freed when you call \fIcurl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP on the
corresponding CURL handle.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode res;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
    res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
    if(res == CURLE_OK) {
      char *scheme = NULL;
      curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_SCHEME, &scheme);
      if(scheme)
        printf("scheme: %s\\n", scheme); /* scheme: HTTP */
    }
    curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.52.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo (3),
.BR curl_easy_setopt (3),
.BR CURLINFO_EFFECTIVE_URL (3),
.BR CURLINFO_PROTOCOL (3),
.BR CURLINFO_RESPONSE_CODE (3)
