.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2022, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_WILDCARDMATCH 3 "16 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_WILDCARDMATCH \- directory wildcard transfers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_WILDCARDMATCH, long onoff);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Set \fIonoff\fP to 1 if you want to transfer multiple files according to a
file name pattern. The pattern can be specified as part of the
\fICURLOPT_URL(3)\fP option, using an fnmatch-like pattern (Shell Pattern
Matching) in the last part of URL (file name).

By default, libcurl uses its internal wildcard matching implementation. You
can provide your own matching function by the
\fICURLOPT_FNMATCH_FUNCTION(3)\fP option.

A brief introduction of its syntax follows:
.RS
.IP "* - ASTERISK"
\&ftp://example.com/some/path/\fB*.txt\fP (for all txt's from the root
directory). Only two asterisks are allowed within the same pattern string.
.RE
.RS
.IP "? - QUESTION MARK"
Question mark matches any (exactly one) character.

\&ftp://example.com/some/path/\fBphoto?.jpeg\fP
.RE
.RS
.IP "[ - BRACKET EXPRESSION"
The left bracket opens a bracket expression. The question mark and asterisk have
no special meaning in a bracket expression. Each bracket expression ends by the
right bracket and matches exactly one character. Some examples follow:

\fB[a-zA-Z0\-9]\fP or \fB[f\-gF\-G]\fP \- character interval

\fB[abc]\fP - character enumeration

\fB[^abc]\fP or \fB[!abc]\fP - negation

\fB[[:\fP\fIname\fP\fB:]]\fP class expression. Supported classes are
\fBalnum\fP,\fBlower\fP, \fBspace\fP, \fBalpha\fP, \fBdigit\fP, \fBprint\fP,
\fBupper\fP, \fBblank\fP, \fBgraph\fP, \fBxdigit\fP.

\fB[][-!^]\fP - special case \- matches only '\-', ']', '[', '!' or '^'. These
characters have no special purpose.

\fB[\\[\\]\\\\]\fP - escape syntax. Matches '[', ']' or '\\'.

Using the rules above, a file name pattern can be constructed:

\&ftp://example.com/some/path/\fB[a-z[:upper:]\\\\].jpeg\fP
.SH PROTOCOLS
This feature is only supported for FTP download.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* initialization of easy handle */
handle = curl_easy_init();

/* turn on wildcard matching */
curl_easy_setopt(handle, CURLOPT_WILDCARDMATCH, 1L);

/* callback is called before download of concrete file started */
curl_easy_setopt(handle, CURLOPT_CHUNK_BGN_FUNCTION, file_is_coming);

/* callback is called after data from the file have been transferred */
curl_easy_setopt(handle, CURLOPT_CHUNK_END_FUNCTION, file_is_downloaded);

/* See more on https://curl.se/libcurl/c/ftp-wildcard.html */
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.21.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_FNMATCH_FUNCTION "(3), " CURLOPT_URL "(3), "
