.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_MAIL_FROM 3 "19 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_MAIL_FROM \- SMTP sender address
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_MAIL_FROM, char *from);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a null-terminated string as parameter. This should be used
to specify the sender's email address when sending SMTP mail with libcurl.

An originator email address should be specified with angled brackets (<>)
around it, which if not specified are added automatically.

If this parameter is not specified then an empty address is sent to the SMTP
server which might cause the email to be rejected.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
blank
.SH PROTOCOLS
SMTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
int main(void)
{
  CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
  if(curl) {
    CURLcode res;
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "smtp://example.com/");
    curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_MAIL_FROM, "president@example.com");
    res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
    curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.20.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_MAIL_AUTH (3),
.BR CURLOPT_MAIL_RCPT (3)
