.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_COOKIEJAR 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_COOKIEJAR \- file name to store cookies to
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_COOKIEJAR, char *filename);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a \fIfilename\fP as a char *, null-terminated. This makes libcurl write
all internally known cookies to the specified file when
\fIcurl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP is called. If no cookies are kept in memory at that
time, no file is created. Specify "-" as filename to instead have the cookies
written to stdout. Using this option also enables cookies for this session, so
if you for example follow a redirect it makes matching cookies get sent
accordingly.

Note that libcurl does not read any cookies from the cookie jar specified with
this option. To read cookies from a file, use \fICURLOPT_COOKIEFILE(3)\fP.

If the cookie jar file cannot be created or written to (when the
\fIcurl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP is called), libcurl does not and cannot report an
error for this. Using \fICURLOPT_VERBOSE(3)\fP or
\fICURLOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION(3)\fP displays a warning, but that is the only
visible feedback you get about this possibly lethal situation.

Cookies are imported in the Set-Cookie format without a domain name are not
exported by this option.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/foo.bin");

  /* export cookies to this file when closing the handle */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_COOKIEJAR, "/tmp/cookies.txt");

  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);

  /* close the handle, write the cookies! */
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Along with HTTP
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if HTTP is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_COOKIE (3),
.BR CURLOPT_COOKIEFILE (3),
.BR CURLOPT_COOKIELIST (3)
