.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_FNMATCH_FUNCTION 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_FNMATCH_FUNCTION \- wildcard matching function callback
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

int fnmatch_callback(void *ptr,
                     const char *pattern,
                     const char *string);

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_FNMATCH_FUNCTION,
                          fnmatch_callback);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to your callback function, which should match the prototype
shown above.

This callback is used for wildcard matching.

Return \fICURL_FNMATCHFUNC_MATCH\fP if pattern matches the string,
\fICURL_FNMATCHFUNC_NOMATCH\fP if not or \fICURL_FNMATCHFUNC_FAIL\fP if an
error occurred.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL == an internal function for wildcard matching.
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
static int my_fnmatch(void *clientp,
                      const char *pattern, const char *string)
{
  struct local_stuff *data = (struct local_stuff *)clientp;
  if(string_match(pattern, string))
    return CURL_FNMATCHFUNC_MATCH;
  else
    return CURL_FNMATCHFUNC_NOMATCH;
}

{
  struct local_stuff local_data;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "ftp://ftp.example.com/file*");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_WILDCARDMATCH, 1L);
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_FNMATCH_FUNCTION, my_fnmatch);
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_FNMATCH_DATA, &local_data);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.21.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_FNMATCH_DATA "(3), " CURLOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION "(3), "
