.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_TIMEVALUE_LARGE 3 "25 Jan 2018" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_TIMEVALUE_LARGE \- time value for conditional
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_TIMEVALUE_LARGE,
                          curl_off_t val);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a curl_off_t \fIval\fP as parameter. This should be the time counted as
seconds since 1 Jan 1970, and the time is used in a condition as specified
with \fICURLOPT_TIMECONDITION(3)\fP.

The difference between this option and \fICURLOPT_TIMEVALUE(3)\fP is the type
of the argument. On systems where 'long' is only 32 bit wide, this option has
to be used to set dates beyond the year 2038.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP, FTP, RTSP, and FILE
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* January 1, 2020 is 1577833200 */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TIMEVALUE_LARGE, (curl_off_t)1577833200);

  /* If-Modified-Since the above time stamp */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TIMECONDITION, CURL_TIMECOND_IFMODSINCE);

  /* Perform the request */
  curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.59.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_TIMECONDITION "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_TIMEVALUE_LARGE "(3), "
