.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_PROXYTYPE 3 "17 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_PROXYTYPE \- proxy protocol type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_PROXYTYPE, long type);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass one of the values below to set the type of the proxy.

.RS
.IP CURLPROXY_HTTP
HTTP Proxy. Default.
.IP CURLPROXY_HTTPS
HTTPS Proxy using HTTP/1. (Added in 7.52.0 for OpenSSL and GnuTLS. Since
7.87.0, it also works for BearSSL, mbedTLS, rustls, Schannel, Secure Transport
and wolfSSL.)
.IP CURLPROXY_HTTPS2
HTTPS Proxy and attempt to speak HTTP/2 over it. (Added in 8.1.0)
.IP CURLPROXY_HTTP_1_0
HTTP 1.0 Proxy. This is similar to CURLPROXY_HTTP except it uses HTTP/1.0 for
any CONNECT tunneling. It does not change the HTTP version of the actual HTTP
requests, controlled by \fICURLOPT_HTTP_VERSION(3)\fP.
.IP CURLPROXY_SOCKS4
SOCKS4 Proxy.
.IP CURLPROXY_SOCKS4A
SOCKS4a Proxy. Proxy resolves URL hostname.
.IP CURLPROXY_SOCKS5
SOCKS5 Proxy.
.IP CURLPROXY_SOCKS5_HOSTNAME
SOCKS5 Proxy. Proxy resolves URL hostname.
.RE

Often it is more convenient to specify the proxy type with the scheme part of
the \fICURLOPT_PROXY(3)\fP string.
.SH DEFAULT
CURLPROXY_HTTP
.SH PROTOCOLS
Most
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  CURLcode ret;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY, "local.example.com:1080");
  /* set the proxy type */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXYTYPE, CURLPROXY_SOCKS5);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_PROXY (3),
.BR CURLOPT_PROXYPORT (3)
