.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_TLSAUTH_USERNAME 3 "19 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_TLSAUTH_USERNAME \- user name to use for TLS authentication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_TLSAUTH_USERNAME, char *user);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * as parameter, which should point to the null-terminated username
to use for the TLS authentication method specified with the
\fICURLOPT_TLSAUTH_TYPE(3)\fP option. Requires that the
\fICURLOPT_TLSAUTH_PASSWORD(3)\fP option also be set.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.

This feature relies in TLS SRP which does not work with TLS 1.3.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS-based protocols
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TLSAUTH_TYPE, "SRP");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TLSAUTH_USERNAME, "user");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_TLSAUTH_PASSWORD, "secret");
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.21.4, with the OpenSSL and GnuTLS backends only
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_TLSAUTH_TYPE (3),
.BR CURLOPT_TLSAUTH_PASSWORD (3)
