.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLKEY 3 "16 Nov 2016" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLKEY \- private key file for HTTPS proxy client cert
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLKEY, char *keyfile);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a null-terminated string as parameter. The string should be
the file name of your private key used for connecting to the HTTPS proxy. The
default format is "PEM" and can be changed with
\fICURLOPT_PROXY_SSLKEYTYPE(3)\fP.

(Windows, iOS and Mac OS X) This option is ignored by Secure Transport and
Schannel SSL backends because they expect the private key to be already
present in the key chain or PKCS#12 file containing the certificate.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY, "https://proxy");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLCERT, "client.pem");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLKEY, "key.pem");
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_PROXY_KEYPASSWD, "s3cret");
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.52.0

If built TLS enabled.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if TLS is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLCERT (3),
.BR CURLOPT_PROXY_SSLKEYTYPE (3),
.BR CURLOPT_SSLCERT (3),
.BR CURLOPT_SSLKEY (3),
.BR CURLOPT_SSLKEYTYPE (3)

