.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_NOSIGNAL 3 "16 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_NOSIGNAL \- skip all signal handling
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_NOSIGNAL, long onoff);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
If \fIonoff\fP is 1, libcurl uses no functions that install signal handlers or
any functions that cause signals to be sent to the process. This option is
here to allow multi-threaded unix applications to still set/use all timeout
options etc, without risking getting signals.

If this option is set and libcurl has been built with the standard name
resolver, timeouts cannot occur while the name resolve takes place. Consider
building libcurl with the c-ares or threaded resolver backends to enable
asynchronous DNS lookups, to enable timeouts for name resolves without the use
of signals.

Setting \fICURLOPT_NOSIGNAL(3)\fP to 1 makes libcurl NOT ask the system to
ignore SIGPIPE signals, which otherwise are sent by the system when trying to
send data to a socket which is closed in the other end. libcurl makes an
effort to never cause such SIGPIPE signals to trigger, but some operating
systems have no way to avoid them and even on those that have there are some
corner cases when they may still happen, contrary to our desire. In addition,
using \fICURLAUTH_NTLM_WB\fP authentication could cause a SIGCHLD signal to be
raised.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");

  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_NOSIGNAL, 1L);

  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);

  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.10
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR CURLOPT_TIMEOUT "(3), "
