.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLINFO_FTP_ENTRY_PATH 3 "12 Sep 2015" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLINFO_FTP_ENTRY_PATH \- get entry path in FTP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_getinfo(CURL *handle, CURLINFO_FTP_ENTRY_PATH, char **path);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a char pointer to receive a pointer to a string holding the
path of the entry path. That is the initial path libcurl ended up in when
logging on to the remote FTP server. This stores a NULL as pointer if
something is wrong.

The \fBpath\fP pointer will be NULL or pointing to private memory you MUST NOT
free - it gets freed when you call \fIcurl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP on the
corresponding CURL handle.
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP(S) and SFTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com");

  res = curl_easy_perform(curl);

  if(!res) {
    /* extract the entry path */
    char *ep = NULL;
    res = curl_easy_getinfo(curl, CURLINFO_FTP_ENTRY_PATH, &ep);
    if(!res && ep) {
      printf("Entry path was: %s\\n", ep);
    }
  }
  curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.15.4. Works for SFTP since 7.21.4
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_getinfo "(3), " curl_easy_setopt "(3), "
