.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_MAX_SEND_SPEED_LARGE 3 "19 Jun 2014" libcurl libcurl
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_MAX_SEND_SPEED_LARGE \- rate limit data upload speed
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_MAX_SEND_SPEED_LARGE,
                          curl_off_t maxspeed);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a curl_off_t as parameter with the \fImaxspeed\fP. If an upload exceeds
this speed (counted in bytes per second) the transfer pauses to keep the
average speed less than or equal to the parameter value. Defaults to unlimited
speed.

This is not an exact science. libcurl attempts to keep the average speed below
the given threshold over a period time.

If you set \fImaxspeed\fP to a value lower than
\fICURLOPT_UPLOAD_BUFFERSIZE(3)\fP, libcurl might "shoot over" the limit on
its first send and still send off a full buffer.

This option does not affect transfer speeds done with FILE:// URLs.
.SH DEFAULT
0, disabled
.SH PROTOCOLS
All except file://
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  CURLcode ret;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  /* cap the upload speed to 1000 bytes/sec */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_MAX_SEND_SPEED_LARGE, (curl_off_t)1000);
  /* (set some upload options as well!) */
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.15.5
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_LOW_SPEED_LIMIT (3),
.BR CURLOPT_MAX_RECV_SPEED_LARGE (3)
