.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_PROGRESSFUNCTION 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_PROGRESSFUNCTION \- callback to progress meter function
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

int progress_callback(void *clientp,
                      double dltotal,
                      double dlnow,
                      double ultotal,
                      double ulnow);

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_PROGRESSFUNCTION, progress_callback);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to your callback function, which should match the prototype
shown above.

We encourage users to use the newer \fICURLOPT_XFERINFOFUNCTION(3)\fP instead,
if you can.

This function gets called by libcurl instead of its internal equivalent with a
frequent interval. While data is being transferred it will be called very
frequently, and during slow periods like when nothing is being transferred it
can slow down to about one call per second.

\fIclientp\fP is the pointer set with \fICURLOPT_PROGRESSDATA(3)\fP, it is not
used by libcurl but is only passed along from the application to the callback.

The callback gets told how much data libcurl will transfer and has
transferred, in number of bytes. \fIdltotal\fP is the total number of bytes
libcurl expects to download in this transfer. \fIdlnow\fP is the number of
bytes downloaded so far. \fIultotal\fP is the total number of bytes libcurl
expects to upload in this transfer. \fIulnow\fP is the number of bytes
uploaded so far.

Unknown/unused argument values passed to the callback will be set to zero
(like if you only download data, the upload size will remain 0). Many times
the callback will be called one or more times first, before it knows the data
sizes so a program must be made to handle that.

Returning a non-zero value from this callback will cause libcurl to abort the
transfer and return \fICURLE_ABORTED_BY_CALLBACK\fP.

If you transfer data with the multi interface, this function will not be
called during periods of idleness unless you call the appropriate libcurl
function that performs transfers.

\fICURLOPT_NOPROGRESS(3)\fP must be set to 0 to make this function actually
get called.
.SH DEFAULT
By default, libcurl has an internal progress meter. That's rarely wanted by
users.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
https://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/c/progressfunc.html
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_VERBOSE "(3), " CURLOPT_NOPROGRESS "(3), "
